
OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Align Q1 '21 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Shirley Stacy, Vice President, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Shirley Stacy -- Vice President Finance, Corporate and Investor Communications

 



Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us. I'm Shirley Stacy, Vice President of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations. Joining me for today's call is Joe Hogan, President and CEO and John Morici CFO.We issued first quarter 2021 financial results today via GlobeNewswire, which is available on our website at investor.aligntech.com. Today's conference call is being audio webcast and will be archived on our website for approximately one month. A telephone replay will be available today by approximately 5:30 PM Eastern Time through 5:30 PM Eastern Time on May 12. To access the telephone replay, domestic callers should dial 877-660-6853 with conference number 13718065 followed by pound. International callers should dial 201-612-7415 with the same conference number.As a reminder, the information provided and discuss today will include forward-looking statements, including statements about Align's future events and product outlook. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve risks and uncertainties that are described in more detail in our most recent periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission available on our website and at sec.gov. Actual results may vary significantly and Align expressly assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.We have posted historical financial statements, including the corresponding reconciliations including our GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation if applicable. And our first quarter 2021 conference call slides on our website under Quarterly Results. Please refer to these files for more detailed information.

 



Please note as of Q1 '21 we are no longer including number of doctors trained, Clear Aligner shipment volume by region and total worldwide average selling price. We will continue to share information management uses to evaluate the business and metrics to help investors and analysts assess our financial performance.With that, I'll turn the call over to Align Technology's President and CEO, Joe Hogan, Joe?Joseph M. Hogan -- Director, President, Chief Executive OfficerThanks Shirley. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us. On our call today, I'll provide some highlights on the first quarter then briefly discuss the performance of our two operating segments, Clear Aligners and Systems and Services. John will provide more detail on our financial results and discuss our outlook for the full year. Following that, I'll come back and summarize a few key points and open the call to questions.

 



I'm pleased to report another strong quarter with record revenues and volumes reflecting strong growth for both Invisalign Clear Aligners and iTero Systems and Services across products and customer channels worldwide. Q1 sequential Invisalign Clear Aligner growth was driven by strength in both adult and teen market segments across products, customer channels, especially in North America and the EMEA region. The year is off to a great start, and Q1 reflects increasing momentum and the benefit from continued investments in our strategic initiatives focusing on expanding our operations globally in existing and emerging international markets, increasing ortho adoption and utilization of Invisalign Treatment especially with teens, training and education GP dentist and increasing conversion to Clear Aligners and building Invisalign brand preference with millions of consumers through advertising, PR, digital social media and influencer marketing to drive demand and conversion to Invisalign-trained doctors.For Q1, total revenues were $894.8 million, up 7.2% sequentially and 62.4% year-over-year. Q1 System and Services were $141.5 million, up 5.8% sequentially and up 104% year-over-year. Q1 '21 Clear Aligner revenues of $753.3 million were up 7.5% sequentially and increased 56.4% year-over-year. In Q1, we shipped a record 595.8000 Invisalign cases, an increase of 4.9% sequentially and 65.8% year-over-year. In addition, we shipped to a record 78.6000 Invisalign doctors worldwide, of which approximately 6.6000 were first-time customers.During the quarter we reached a significant milestone with our 10 millionth Invisalign patient Gabriela Silva, who recently began her treatment with Dr. Dr. Eunice Blind, an Invisalign trained orthodontists in Sao Paulo, Brazil, one of our fastest growing country markets. It's remarkable to think about the pace of growth and adoption that we are experiencing worldwide. Especially, we're considering it took 10 years to achieve our 1-millionth Invisalign patient milestone and now we're adding 1 million new Invisalign patients in less than 6 months. We are grateful to our doctor partners and their patients and to our 20,000 employees around the world that helped us reach this milestone.In recognition of our 10-millionth Invisalign milestone, we've donated $10 million to the Align Foundation, donor-advised fund and are kicking off a campaign called #10MInvisalignSmiles, 10 million thanks, centered around the transformative power of Invisalign treatment through the eyes of Invisalign patients. From a product perspective, Q1 Clear Aligner revenues reflect strong growth across the Invisalign portfolio for both comprehensive and non-comprehensive products. Q1 comp volume increased 4.9% sequentially and 62.3% year-over-year.In Q1, non-comp or non-comprehensive volume increased 5% sequentially and 74.4% year-over-year. Invisalign Clear Aligners address a wide range of case complexity and can treat approximately 90% of case starts for adults and teens in Phase 1 treatment for kids as young as 6 years old. Q1 adult patients, increased 5.8% sequentially and 68.5% year-over-year. Q1 teens or younger patients increased 2.7% sequentially, 58.9% year-over-year. Teenage cases made up nearly 75% of the 15 million ortho starts each year and despite our rapid growth in adoption, Invisalign treatment is still only single-digits worldwide. So, we continue to see significant runway here.Our strong Q1 results also reflect our multi-million dollar consumer marketing investment across key media channels with broad reach to drive consumers to Invisalign doctor practices. Our teen and mom-focused consumer campaign generated 138% year-over-year increase in unique visitors to our website and 35% increase in leads generated. In addition, Invisalign social media influencers like Charli D'Amelio, Avani Gregg, Antoine Franz, and many others content creators influencers enabled a delivery of 4.2 billion impressions in Q1 '21 delivering exciting new content and increased engagement for the Invisalign brand among their millions of followers.The consumer insights and data we receive from our programs suggest adults are also continuing to invest more in themselves for their overall health and well-being and have more disposable income to do so. They are seeking Invisalign Clear Aligner treatment from our Invisalign doctors and sharing their positive experiences with their friends, family and social networks becoming influencers themselves.Now let's turn to the specifics around our first quarter results, starting with the Americas. For the Americas region, Q1 was another strong quarter with Invisalign case volume up 8.4% sequentially and 53.8% year-over-year, reflecting increased Invisalign submitters and utilization growth for both orthodontic and GP channels. Q1 results also reflect continued investment in digital marketing, sales programs, our channel focus around GPs, orthos and DSOs and other initiatives to help drive utilization. In the GP channel, Invisalign Moderate and Invisalign Go continue to gain traction. This was especially true for GP dentists that enrolled in the iPro program, as well as doctors that have installed iTero scanners. The GP Accelerator program designed exclusively for GPs provides an all encompassing support plan based on practice needs that is centered around maximizing iTero integration, clinical support needs and implementing new marketing strategies. DSO utilization also increased and continues to be a strong growth driver and outpaced non-DSO practices.Today, we announced that we have extended our relationship with DECA Dental Group and have signed a new multi-year agreement for the Invisalign system through early 2025. In addition, DECA Dental Group is extending utilization of iTero Element 5D Imaging System across its affiliate practices in United States. This provides DECA Dental doctors and clinical support team members with access to Align's customized clinical education for the Invisalign system and the iTero Element 5D Imaging System to support practices in adopting new workflows for restorative dentistry and for digital orthodontics.In the ortho-channel, the team also in these centers program directs patients to Invisalign doctors who are expert at treating teens and are seen as the go-to doctors in their markets helping to drive increase comprehensive treatments within the North American ortho-channel. Tomorrow, registration opens for the 2021 Teen Forum Virtual Edition to be held on June 10 and 11 which combines 2 days of all new dynamic sessions focused on the Invisalign teen patient journey. Sessions will focus on building clinical confidence, efficient workflows, teen and parent conversion and the overall digital treatment experience that teens expect. The timing of the forum is designed as a strong lead to the busy teen season and attendees will have the option after post-forum mentoring by Invisalign teen experts to help orthos and their staff apply the tools from the Teen Forum to their practices and get additional support through their busy summer.For International business, Q1 Invisalign case volume was up sequentially 0.9%, on a year-over-year basis, international shipments were up 83.2%. In EMEA, Q1 volumes were sequentially 3.7% up 74.9% year-over-year with strong broad-based growth across all markets, led by the UK, France and Italy, along with the continued growth in our expansion markets led by Turkey, Russia, CIS and Benelux. We also saw strong performance from both ortho and GP channels with momentum in the GP channels with adults reflected in strong utilization and shipments from Invisalign Go. EMEA growth programs are customized by market and customers type to encourage Invisalign utilization such as Professional 360 Ortho and Advanced 360 Ortho programs with over 2,000 orthodontists enrolled.We also had GP Move 360, a program designed to be able to help move doctors along their developmental journey, with an increase in GP cohorts of over 117% compared to a prior year. We're also continue to offer online and on-demand education events, which have reached over 15,000 GPs cumulatively. In the region, we hosted several successful summits and forums for Invisalign doctors this quarter, in all-virtual formats the UK GP Forum and Ortho Summit, French Ortho Summit and the iTero Element Plus launch media event. In addition, we just held the Italian and DACH or German Ortho Summit last week.International expansion remains one of our key strategic pillars. Last week we announced plans to open a new manufacturing facility in Poland, which will be our first Aligner plant in the EMEA region and our third plant worldwide joining Juarez, Mexico and Ziyang, China. The new facility is expected to be supplying customers in the EMEA region in early 2022, helping address the large and relatively untapped market of more than 5 million annual orthodontic case starts and more than 150 million EMEA customers who could benefit from treatment. The investment is part of our strategy to bring operational facilities closer to our customers and reflects our commitment to Invisalign trained doctors and their patients in the EMEA region and extends our local operations in the region. The state-of-the-art EMEA plant and work law is expected to add more than 2,500 jobs by the end of 2025, making it the company's largest investment in EMEA to-date and the largest 3D printing operation in the region.For APAC, Q1 volumes were down sequentially 3.9% as expected, reflecting seasonality. On a year-over-year basis, APAC was up 101.3% compared to the prior year, reflecting continued strong growth across the region led by China, Japan and ANZ. Invisalign volume growth drivers or young adults with young kids ramping faster than any other age group. In the teen segment Invisalign volumes accelerated during the quarter and were driven by increased Invisalign utilization in case submissions from Invisalign doctors.We also continue to see good adoption of the Invisalign Moderate product for non-comprehensive treatment in the GP channel. During the quarter, we continued to offer online and on-demand education events which reached over 14,000 GPs cumulatively. Invisalign volumes in China were flat sequentially and up over 200% year-over-year. In Q1, China volumes gained momentum throughout the quarter. The Align clinical education site is to go-to digital hub for Invisalign doctors and team education and training. The digital learning environment was relaunched in February 2020 for Invisalign doctors offering a comprehensive learning platform with role specific content for orthos, GPs and their teams. The site enables more online learning opportunities with spotlight features for what's trending now, recommended learning paths based on doctors' experiences and expanded categories including digital treatment planning, comprehensive dentistry and team education.During the quarter, over 102,000 unique users having assessed and the records lecture, completed self-paced learning modules and watched how to videos doing more than 3 million pages of learnt content. In the ortho-channel, over 38,000 unique users have engaged with the digital learning site and additional 63,000 unique users from the GP channel. We also continue to see good adoption of the ADAPT program, which is an expert and independent fee-based business consulting service offered by Align to optimize clinics operational workflow and processes to enhance patient experience, customer and staff satisfaction. As a result of the ADAPT service, practices experienced higher growth and greater efficiencies for orthodontic practices as well as improved profitability after implementation. To-date, we've seen a 50% increase in Invisalign cases among doctors, cohorts within 6 months of participation in the ADAPT program. In addition, while still early in the program, we're also seeing a strong correlation or halo effect on teen utilization among ADAPT doctor cohorts.Our consumer marketing is focuses on educating consumers about the Invisalign system and driving that demand to our Invisalign doctor offices, ultimately capitalizing on the massive market opportunity to transform 500 million smiles. In Q1, we continue to see strong digital engagement globally with more than 138% increase in unique visitors, 95% increase in Doctor Locator searches and 35% increase in leads created on a year-over-year basis, driven by our global adult and mom-focused campaigns and teen focused influencer content. Our U.S. mom-teen multi-touch, multi-million dollar campaign with influencer led YouTube videos, among focused TV spot, a custom Twitch activation and mega teen sensation such as Charli D'Amelio and Avani Gregg continue to perform well and garnered 4.2 billion impressions in Q1.The statistics I shared previously speak to the continued success this marketing campaign is having, to not only drive demand with consumers, but also educate them on the benefits of Invisalign treatment through a doctor's office. The Align digital platform continues to gain traction globally. Our consumer and patient app My Invisalign is now available in 58 markets, resulting in a more than 4 times increase in app downloads and 3 times increase in patients actively using our app in Q1 '21 versus the same period a year ago.Our consumer and patients feature usage continues to increase. For example, Invisalign Virtual Appointment tool was used 86,000 times and our insurance verification feature was used 27,000 times in Q1. Further, we received more than 575,000 patient photos in our Virtual Care feature to take globally, providing us rich data to leverage our AI capabilities to improve our services for doctors and patients. Lastly, our new consumer website has been rolled out to more than 50 markets and continues to drive increased effectiveness in recreation.In the EMEA region, we've built on the tremendous success we saw with the consumer marketing pilot in Q4 in the UK and expanded our media investments across the UK, Germany and France to drive in great engagements resulting in more than 335% increase in unique visitors and 95% increase in leads. We also expanded our consumer advertising in the APAC region in Australia, Japan and China and saw more than 2,000% increase in consumer engagement and a 298% percent increase in leads. Several key metrics that show increased activity engagement with the Invisalign brand are included in our Q1 quarterly presentation slides available on our website.Our NFL partnership continues to do well, generating over 23.5 million impressions during the quarter. It continues to be another major integral channel to reach adults considering Clear Aligner treatment through an Invisalign trained doctor. During the quarter we expanded our sports partnership marketing strategy with the Invisalign brand named the official Smile Partner of the Golden State Warriors. As part of the agreement with the 6 times NBA, Champion Golden State Warriors the Invisalign brand also the Official Smile partner of the Santa Cruz Warriors, the Golden State's G League affiliate and the Golden Guardians its e-sport affiliate. The sponsorship includes omnichannel activation across TV, digital media, social, a jersey partnership with the Golden Guardians and the Santa Cruz Warriors.Finally, on the consumer marketing front, we also launched our first ever social purpose initiative in Q1 called Invisalign ChangeMakers, an award program we developed a partnership with the National 4-H Council. This is a celebrating highlight teens in making impact in their communities. We were blown away by the number of recommendations and stories we received about teens, from redistributing excess food to combat hunger in their communities, to donating weighted blankets to those in the autism spectrum. Overall, it's been heartwarming to learn about each of these amazing teenagers who bring a unique approach to positively impacting their communities and following their passions to create change. In total, we received nearly 800 ChangeMaker applications, on June 28, we will announce a 100 winners, each of whom will receive $5,000 to help them continue their goodwill efforts. We'll also celebrate these young forces of change with a virtual ceremony currently slated for mid-July. We are continuing to invest in creating consumer demand for Invisalign Aligners in markets around the world. Our global campaigns include a multi-channel media strategy, using digital video, social media, influencer marketing and TV.For our Systems and Services business, Q1 revenues were up 5.8% sequentially reflecting slightly lower scanner volume following a record fourth quarter. This is primarily due to the seasonality of capital equipment sales at year-end and higher Services revenue. On a year-over-year basis, Systems and Services' revenues were up 104%, reflecting strong scanner shipments and services. The iTero Element 5D Imaging System continues to gain traction across all regions. Element 5D is the first integrated dental imaging system that simultaneously records 3D intraoral optical impressions 2D color images in near-infrared technology or NIRI technology. Forged scans can be completed in as little as 60 seconds, and NIRI technology scans a structure of the tooth in real-time without harmful radiation, acting as digital aid for detection of inapproximal caries or cavities above the gingival line.In APAC the Element Flex is doing well with its wand-only configuration that provides needed mobility so doctors can see patients anywhere they choose, and also will perform full-arch scans in even the smallest office. During the quarter, we announced availability of the iTero Element Plus Series, which expands the iTero portfolio to serve a broad range of the dental market. The new Element Plus series offers faster processing time, advanced visualization capabilities for seamless scanning experience in a new sleek ergonomically designed package. It's also engineered with the latest computing power, a dedicated AI chip and new AI-based features as well as an easy upgrade path for future innovation.In terms of digital scans used for Invisalign case submissions in Q1 total digital scans increased to 80.9% from 75.8% in Q1 last year. International scans increased to 75.1%, up from 68.7% in the same quarter last year. For the Americas, 85.5% of the cases submitted digitally compared to 80.5% a year ago. Cumulatively, over 35.4 million orthodontic scans and 7.5 million restorative scans have been performed with iTero scanners.Turning to exocad, a year ago in April, we welcomed exocad into the Align family. I want to thank the entire team for their continued progress on integration and roadmap development. Together we are working to extend exocad's position as a key technology provider for the dental CAD/CAM industry and to drive continuous innovation with the open and integrated approach that is the foundation of exocad. During Q1, the new release of exocad's DentalCAD3D Galway was successfully rolled out globally with very positive customer feedback. A record number of over 70,000 verified prosthetic components were created in DentalCAD Galway, one of the largest prosthetic libraries in the industry; exocad also reached a new milestone for the exoplan database, which now supports nearly 10,000 implants from over 90 manufacturers. The new release also includes a unique and highly innovative DentalCAD feature, Instant Anatomic Morphing that reduces design time by up to 30% compared to previous version. It also includes new AI technology for exocad Smile Creator, which enables time saving, automatic detection of facial features.In addition, the new My iTero Connector was launched directly to exocad labs. The My iTero Connector creates an easy and integrated way to receive intraoral scan cases from thousands of iTero doctors worldwide. New cases are downloaded automatically and will show up directly in the Dental DB case list; exocad also co-hosted a joint dentistry event in the UK to showcase full workflow Chairside titled Digital Dentistry Hands On, a virtual roadshow, and the general dentist showcases a full digital workflow for the clinical environment with ChairsideCAD, exocad's complete open architecture CAD software platform for single-visit dentistry, hosted by Dr. Gulshan Murgai, the participants of the roadshow series learned how to use the software for single-visit restorations and implant planning in the dental practice along the entire digital dentistry workflow, These are just a few milestones and we're excited about the opportunities ahead to shape the dental industry with technology and expertise that benefits all customers, labs, partners and users. We look forward to sharing more about ongoing exocad developments.With that, I'll now turn it over to John.John F. Morici -- Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Global FinanceThanks, Joe. Now for our Q1 financial results.Total revenues for the first quarter were $894.8 million, up 7.2% from the prior quarter and up 62.4% from the corresponding quarter a year ago. For Clear Aligners, Q1 revenues of $753.3 million were up 7.5% sequentially and up 56.4% year-over-year, reflecting Invisalign volume growth in most geographies. Clear Aligner revenues growth was favorably impacted by foreign exchange of approximately $14.4 million, or approximately 2.1 points sequentially and on a year-over-year basis by approximately $22.3 million or approximately 4.6 points.For Q1, Invisalign comprehensive and non-comprehensive ASPs were both up sequentially. On a year-over-year basis. Q1 Invisalign comprehensive and non-comprehensive ASPs decreased. Overall, on a sequential and year-over-year basis, ASPs were favorably impacted by foreign exchange. On a year-over-year basis, ASPs were impacted by higher net revenue deferrals in all regions and higher promotional discounts. Clear Aligner deferred revenue on the balance sheet increased $79 million sequentially and $256 million year-over-year and will be recognized as the additional liners are shipped. Total Q1 Clear Aligner shipments of 595.8000 cases were up 4.9% sequentially and up 65.8% year-over-year.Our Systems and Services revenues for the first quarter was a record $141.5 million, up 5.8% sequentially due to product mix and increased services revenues from our larger installed base and exocad's CAD/CAM services. Year-over-year Systems and Services revenues was up 104% due to higher scanner shipments and services and the inclusion of exocad's CAD/CAM services from the April 2020 acquisition and increased services from our larger installed base. Our Systems and Services deferred revenue was up 17% sequentially and up 102% year-over-year, primarily due to the increase in scanner sales and the deferral of service revenues, which will be recognized ratably over the service period.Moving on to gross margin. First quarter overall gross margin was 75.7% up 2.5 points sequentially and up 4.1 points year-over-year. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding stock-based compensation and amortization of intangibles related to our exocad acquisition, overall gross margin was 76.1% for the first quarter and up 2.5 points sequentially and up 4.2 points year-over-year. Overall, gross margin was favorably impacted by approximately 0.5 points sequentially and 0.7 points on a year-over-year basis due to foreign exchange.Clear Aligner gross margin for the first quarter was 77.6%, up 2.7 points sequentially due to increased manufacturing efficiencies from higher production volumes, higher ASPs and lower freight, partially offset by higher additional Aligner volume. Clear Aligner gross margin was up 4.6 points year-over-year due to increased manufacturing efficiencies from higher production volumes and lower freight, partially offset by lower ASPs.Systems and Services gross margin for the first quarter was a record 65.4% up 1.2 points sequentially primarily due to manufacturing efficiencies from higher production volumes and higher ASPs, partially offset by increased freight. Systems and Services gross margin was up 3.6 points year-over-year due to manufacturing efficiencies from increased volume, higher ASPs and services revenues. Q1 operating expenses were $451.7 million, up sequentially 13.7% and up 39.2% year-over-year. This sequential increase in operating expenses is due to increased compensation, primarily from additional headcount and incentive compensation, consumer marketing spend and other general and administrative costs. Year-over-year operating expenses has increased by $127.2 million, reflecting our continued investment in sales and R&D activities and investments commensurate with business growth.On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles related to our exocad acquisition and acquisition costs related to our exocad acquisition, operating expenses were $424.8 million, up sequentially 14.1% and up 40.9% year-over-year. Our first quarter operating income of $225.4 million resulted in an operating margin of 25.2%, down 0.3 point sequentially and up 12.5 points year-over-year. The sequential decrease in operating margin is attributed to operational investments. The year-over-year increase in operating margin are primarily attributed to higher gross margin and operating leverage.On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes stock-based compensation and amortization of intangibles, the acquisition costs related to our exocad acquisition, operating margin for the first quarter was 28.6%, down 0.4 points sequentially and up 11.5 points year-over-year. Our operating margin was favorably impacted by approximately 0.8 points sequentially and 1.5 points on a year-over-year basis due to foreign exchange. Interest and other income and expense net for the first quarter was a gain of $36.2 million, primarily driven by the SDC arbitration award gain. Excluding the SDC arbitration award gain, interest and other income and expense net was a $7.2 million expense on a non-GAAP basis.With regards to the first quarter tax provision, our GAAP tax rate was 23.4%, which includes tax expense of approximately $11 million related to U.S. taxes on the SDC arbitration award received an approximately $14 million of excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. Our GAAP tax rate this quarter was lower than the prior quarter rate of 25.9% primarily due to the higher excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, partially offset by foreign income taxes at different rates.Our GAAP tax rate was higher than the same quarter last year, which was negative 2,745% primarily due to a one-time tax benefit of approximately $1.5 billion dollars associated with our corporate structure reorganization completed during the first quarter of 2020. The first quarter tax rate on a non-GAAP basis was 20.2% compared to 14.5% in prior quarter and 33.2% in the prior year. The first quarter non-GAAP tax rate was higher than the prior quarter rate, primarily due to lower tax benefits from foreign income tax at different rates. In comparison to prior year, the non-GAAP tax rate for the first quarter was lower, primarily due to higher tax benefits from foreign income tax at different rates.First quarter net income per diluted share was $2.51, up $0.51 sequentially and down $16.70 compared to prior year. On a non-GAAP basis, net income per diluted share was $2.49 for the first quarter, down $0.12 sequentially and up $1.76 year-over-year.Moving on to the balance sheet. As of March 31, 2021, cash and cash equivalents were $1.1 billion, an increase of approximately $170.9 million from the prior quarter, which is primarily due to cash flow from operations. Of our $1.1 billion of cash and cash equivalents, $684.4 million was held in the U.S. and $447.3 million was held by our international entities. Q1 accounts receivable balance was $719 million, up approximately 9.3% sequentially. Our overall days sales outstanding was 72 days, up approximately 1 day sequentially and down approximately 15 days as compared to Q1 last year.Cash flow from operations for the first quarter was $227.2 million. Capital expenditures for the first quarter were $43.4 million primarily related to our continued investment in increasing Aligner capacity in facilities. Free cash flow, defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures amounted to $183.8 million. We also have $300 million available under our revolving line of credit. Under our May 2018 repurchase program, we have $100 million remaining available for repurchase of our common stock.Now let me turn to our outlook. Overall, we are very pleased with our first quarter results and our continued strong momentum across regions and customer channels. It has been over a year since the pandemic began, and I want to briefly recap the actions we took to support our employees by protecting employee jobs and salaries and by supporting our customers with PPE, extended payment terms, training and many other areas of assistance. Instead of going quiet, we accelerated our investments in marketing to drive consumer demand to our doctors' offices and stay top of mind with consumers. We accelerated our digital technology investments so that we could provide virtual tools to our doctors enabling them to stay connected with their patients and keep the treatment moving forward.We continue to grow the business, increased our investments in R&D and product innovation and developing our plans for manufacturing expansion in EMEA. We did all these things for our customers, partners, employees and shareholders, because we believe in the industry and the size of the market opportunity. Our results are the outcome of our conviction in our business model, focus and ability to execute. While there continues to be uncertainty around the pandemic and global environment, the strength in our business reflects the purposeful decisions we made through the pandemic and fuels our confidence and continue to invest into growth to drive demand and conversion globally.Q2 is off to a great start and momentum has continued through April, consumer demand trends in patient traffic across the dental industry are favorable and continue to improve. Given these factors and the positive trends we continue to see across the business, we believe it is important to share our current outlook and provide guidance for the full year. Note that the outlook we are providing does not reflect any potential significant disruption or additional costs related to any supply constraints.With that, let's turn to our full-year 2021 outlook and the factors that inform our view. We have growing confidence in our digital platform and how it is driving growth across all region and market segments. We expect 2021 revenues of $3.7 billion to $3.9 billion dollars, up 50% to 58% year-over-year. Consistent with past years, we expect second half revenues to make up more than half of the full-year revenue and our second half revenue to grow year-over-year around the mid point of our long-term operating model target of 20% to 30%.As discussed during our last earnings call, we are increasing our investments in sales, marketing, innovation and manufacturing capacity to continue to drive our growth programs and accelerate adoption and invest in the under-penetrated market. On a GAAP basis, we anticipate 2021 operating margin to be between 23.5% and 24.5%. On a non-GAAP basis, we expect 2021 operating margin to be approximately 3 points higher than our GAAP operating margin after excluding stock-based compensation and intangible amortization.In addition, during Q2 '21, we expect to repurchase $100 million of our common stock through either open market repurchases or an accelerated stock repurchase agreement we intend to enter into on or prior to May 3, 2021. The repurchase is intended to complete the $600 million stock repurchase authorization announced on May 23, 2018.For 2021, we expect our investments in capital expenditures to exceed $300 million. Capital expenditures primarily relate to building, construction and improvements as well as additional manufacturing capacity to support our international expansion. This includes our planned investment in a new manufacturing facility in Wroclaw, Poland, our first one in the EMEA region. We intend to fund these needs with cash generated from operations.With that I will turn it back over to Joe for final comments. Joe?Joseph M. Hogan -- Director, President, Chief Executive OfficerThanks, John. In summary, we're very pleased with the first quarter results of 2021. Our strong growth and continued momentum reflect our strategic initiatives and investments, including support for doctors to ensure treatment and business continuity, ramping availability of virtual tools to keep doctors and patients connected throughout treatment and increased consumer marketing and concierge programs.The benefits of digital treatment and digital tools and the limitations of outdated old analog approaches, continue to drive adoption of Invisalign Clear Aligners and iTero scanners and services. Over the past year, where doctors have experienced aligns digital platform, which made it possible for thousands of Invisalign practices and patients to continue treatment through our global disruption. Thanks to Invisalign Aligners, digital treatment planning, virtual monitoring and care as well as iTero scanners.But the shift from traditional analog wires and brackets to a fully end-to-end digital platform is not easy. It cannot be done without very complex technology, and this technology is prevalent touching every aspect of what we do from manufacturing excellence where we currently manufacture over 700,000 unique aligners per day to expanding our geographic footprint to over 100 markets, to building a network of over 200,000 trained Invisalign doctors and providing the technology to our doctors in a complete digital system, the Align Digital platform.As a market leader and the Clear Aligner space, we've been building this industry over 24 years to get to where it is today, and yet the majority of the market opportunity remains largely untapped. With over 500 million potential case starts globally Align is in a rare position to address this market with the Align Digital platform. Powered by two decades of clinical data, based on more than 10.2 million patients with AI machine learning and digital tools to help our doctors efficiently communicate with their patients, show and explain any issues and visualize this potential treatment outcomes and together with doctors, we're going to leverage the power of digital dentistry and orthodontics more than ever.We remain focused on our strategic execution, agility, customer service excellence and continuing to make investments to grow our business to drive utilization of the Invisalign system, all the more returning value to our shareholders. This is a multi-variable equation that we talk about and there is no other company in the market today that has all these capabilities combined.Finally, throughout the pandemic, our priority has been the health and safety of our employees and their families and our doctor, customers and their staff and that has not changed, we remain dedicated to their well-being. And I want to reiterate, our commitment to all Invisalign practices and our employees around the world, especially those in areas recently affected by a surge in COVID-19, India, Brazil, France, Poland, Ukraine, Mexico, Thailand and Japan. We continue to monitor the situation and are providing support and resources to those impacted employees.Thanks for your time today. I look forward to updating you on our progress as the year unfolds. Now I'll turn the call back over to the operator.