  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the fourth-quarter earnings call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker for today, Mr. Richard Galanti, CFO. Thank you. Please go ahead.Richard Galanti -- Chief Financial Officer

 



 Thank you, Ann, and good afternoon to everyone. I'll start by stating that these discussions will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results and/or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements. The risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those outlined in today's call, as well as other risks identified from time to time in the company's public statements and reports filed with the SEC. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company does not undertake to update these statements, except as required by law. In today's press release, we reported operating results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 to 16 weeks ended August 29. Reported net income for the quarter came in at $1.67 billion or $3.76 per share. Last year's fourth-quarter net income came in at $1.389 billion or $3.13 per diluted share.This year's fourth quarter included an $84 million pre-tax or $0.14 a share charge for the write-off of certain IT assets. Last year's fourth quarter included $281 million pre-tax charge or $0.47 a share of COVID-related costs, as well included a $36 million or $0.06 a share pre-tax charge related to the prepayment of $1.5 billion of debt, partially offset by an $84 million or $0.15 per share benefit for the partial reversal of a reserve related to a product tax assessment taken in the fiscal-year 2019. Net sales for the quarter increased 17.5% to $61.44 billion, up from $52.28 billion a year earlier in the fourth quarter. Comparable sales for the fourth quarter, as reported an hour ago, for the 16 weeks on a reported basis, U.S. was 14.9%. Excluding gas inflation and FX, the 14.9% would be 10.3% positive. Canada reported 19.5% plus; ex gas inflation and FX, 6.7%. Other international reported 15%.

 



 Without gas inflation and FX, 7.3%; total company, 15.5% reported, 9.4% ex gas inflation and FX. E-commerce, by the way, reported was 11.2% positive; ex gas inflation and FX, 8.9%. In terms of Q4 comp sales metrics, traffic or shopping frequency increased 9.2% worldwide and 8.8% in the U.S. Our average transaction or basket was up 5.8% worldwide and 5.6% in the U.S. during the fourth quarter. Those numbers including the positive impact from gas inflation and FX. Foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar positively impact sales by approximately 230 basis points, whereas gasoline price inflation positively impacted sales by approximately 385 basis points. Moving down the income statement to the membership line. Membership fee income for the fourth quarter came in at $1.234 billion in the fourth quarter of 2021. That's up $128 million from the prior year's fourth-quarter membership fee income of $1.106 billion. The $128 million represents an 11.7% increase year over year. Excluding the benefit from positive FX, the $128 million positive number would have been $107 million positive or a 9.7% effective increase. In terms of renewal rates, at the fourth quarter end, our U.S. and Canada renewal rate was 91.3%, up 0.3 percentage point from 16-week earlier number at Q3 end. And worldwide rate came in -- renewal rate came in at 88.7%, also up 0.3 percentage point from Q3 and 16 weeks earlier.

 



 Renewal rates are benefiting, we believe, for more members auto renewing, as well as increased penetration of executive members who, on average, renew at a higher rate than nonexecutive members. Our first year renewal rates have also improved as well during this time. In terms of number of members at Q4 end, member households and total cardholders, at Q4 -- fiscal year-end a few weeks ago, total paid households were 61.7 million. That's up 1.1 million from the 60.6 million figure we shared with you 16 weeks earlier. Total cardholders came in at 111.6 million or 1.8 million higher than the 109.8 million we had as of Q3 end. At Q4 end, paid executive members were -- came in at 25.6 million, an increase of a little over 1 million new executive members, and that's during the 16-week period as well. Moving down to the gross margin line. Our reported gross margin in the fourth quarter was lower year over year by 32 basis points. And actually, excluding gas inflation, it was higher by five basis points. As I usually do, I ask you jot down two columns of numbers, a little gross margin matrix, if you will. The line items will be core merchandise, ancillary -- second line item would be ancillary and other businesses. Third line item would be 2% reward. Fourth line item would be LIFO. And last line item would be other. And then the -- finally, the last line item would be total. Two columns. The first one being reported year over year in the fourth quarter, and the second column, excluding gas inflation. So core merchandise on a reported basis was lower year over year by 90 basis points. Ex gas inflation, it was lower, minus 57 basis points. Ancillary and other businesses, plus 44 on a reported basis and plus 53 ex gas inflation. 2% reward, plus one basis point and minus three year over year on ex gas inflation. LIFO, minus five and minus five basis points. And other, plus 18 and plus 17. If you add up to two columns, you get the total for reported, the 32 basis points that I just mentioned. And again, ex gas inflation, plus five basis points. Now the core merchandise component you see here are lower by 90 year over year and lower by 57 ex gas inflation. Similar to last quarter, this is primarily a function of sales shifting from core to ancillary versus the last year as we begin to revert back to more historical sales penetrations. Recall last year, we saw a significant shift of sales out of ancillary and other businesses and into the core. In terms of the core margin on their own sales, in the fourth quarter, the core-on-core margins were lower by 40 basis points with nonfood slightly up, food and sundries slightly lower year over year. Fresh foods was down and was the fundamental driver of the core, and core being lower in the quarter. Now fresh foods is lapping exceptional labor productivity and low product spoilage that occurred from the outsized sales a year ago in Q4. We retained some of that productivity gains -- some of those productivity gains as volumes have remained high. However, we've also elected to hold, delay and/or mitigate some of the price increases in this increasingly inflationary environment over the last few months. Ancillary and other business gross margin, as you see in the chart in the matrix, was higher by 44 basis points and higher by 53 ex gas inflation in the quarter. Gasoline had a good quarter as we are lapping year over year a softer quarter due to the pandemic. We also showed improvement in food court, optical, travel, all of which were benefited by easy compares versus last year, also due to the impacts of COVID on those businesses. Now LIFO, this is a gross margin charge that we haven't seen in this matrix for about seven years. LIFO was lower by five basis points, both with and without gas inflation. We had a $30 millio   n LIFO charge in the quarter, the first such charge since 2014. This is a result of the continued inflationary cost pressures, which I'll discuss more in a few minutes. 2% reward, higher by one basis point on a reported basis, but more importantly, lower by three basis points ex gas inflation, again, implying a slightly higher penetration of sales going to the executive member and the associated rewards that come with it. And other is up 18 basis points and then up 17 ex gas inflation. This is primarily related to COVID-related costs from a year ago. Moving to SG&A. Our reported SG&A in the fourth quarter was lower or better year over year by 45 basis points and lower or better by 13 basis points, excluding gas inflation. Second matrix of the day, the two columns reported and ex gas inflation and five line items: operations; second line item, central; third line item, stock compensation; fourth line item, other; and then total. On a reported basis, core operations was lower or better by plus 19 basis points and ex gas inflation higher by eight basis points or minus eight basis points. Central, plus 12 and plus eight. Stock compensation, plus two and plus two. And other, plus 12 and plus 11. Adding up the columns again, SG&A on a reported basis was better or lower by 45 basis points and lower ex gas inflation by 13. As you can see in the matrix, the core operations component again was better by 19 and higher by -- lower by 19 and then -- or higher by eight, excluding the impact from gas inflation. Keep in mind, this result includes the permanent $1 an hour wage increase that we implemented in March of this year. This higher by eight basis point year-over-year expense result includes the 14 basis point cost of the $1 an hour wage increase. Central, again, improved by eight basis points ex gas inflation. And stock compensation, also with strong sales, helped by two basis points. Now the other of plus 12 or plus 11 without gas inflation, so lower -- that was another basis points. Included in other last year was the COVID expense of $217 million or 42 basis points and the reversal of a product tax assessment reserve of $84 million or 16 basis points. This year includes the write-off of the IT assets totaling $84 million or 14 basis points. So you add all those up, that's where you get the 11. Next on the income statement is preopening. Preopening this year was $35 million. Last year, $26 million, so higher by $9 million. Preopening is up year over year in part due to the timing of openings and given different amount of preopening on a given location but within the quarter and in the following quarter. All told, reported operating income in the fourth quarter increased by 18%, coming in at $2.275 billion this year, compared to $1.929 billion a year earlier. Below the operating income line, interest expense was $52 million this year, essentially the same at $51 million a year ago. Interest income and other for the quarter was higher by $77 million year over year. Roughly half of that is due to favorable FX, and the other half is related to last year's fourth quarter charge for the make-whole debt prepayment. Overall, reported pre-tax earnings in the fourth quarter of 2021 came in up 23%, coming in at $2.291 billion, compared to last year's $1.869 billion. Now our tax rate in the fourth quarter was 26.1%, higher than last year's fourth-quarter rate of 24.9%. For fiscal '22, based on our current estimates, which, of course, can always change, we anticipate that our effective normalized total company tax rate to be similar to fiscal '21, somewhere in the 26% to 27% range. Unless, of course, there are changes to the U.S. corporate tax rates, we'll have to see -- wait and see. A few other items of note, warehouse expansion. For fiscal '21 we just ended, we opened net openings of 20. We actually had 22 openings, including two relocations, but a total increase of 20 net units. This year, we're looking to open at least 25 net new units, including second warehouses in each of China and France and our first location in New Zealand. As well, we plan to relocate five locations. Regarding capital expenditures, our fourth quarter 2021 spend, capital expenditure was approximately $1.09 billion. Our full-year capex spend was $3.59 billion. As I mentioned in last quarter's call, this included a relatively recent $340 million purchase of a distribution facility on the West Coast to support our big and bulky delivery activities. For e-commerce, e-commerce sales in the fourth quarter ex FX increased by 8.9% year over year. That's on top of last year's Q4 e-commerce sales increase of 91%. Stronger departments, jewelry. We actually sold a couple of rings in the $100,000 range. Home furnishings was strong. Pharmacy was strong. And sporting goods was strong. A couple of other large departments like majors and electronics, while very good sales, we had really outsized sales a year ago in the fourth quarter during COVID. Update on Costco Logistics. Logistics continues to drive big and bulky sales. For the quarter, Costco Logistics sales within -- our delivery was up 130%, and in the quarter, represented 24% of all sales on our U.S. e-commerce site. That compares to -- that 24%, compared to 11% of e-commerce sales last year. Remind you, much of that relates to moving things from other third parties to our own internal logistics department. Approximately -- currently, approximately 7,000 to 10,000 daily deliveries via Costco Logistics are occurring and continuing to grow. In terms of our e-comm app, we have over 10 million downloads. It's continually improving, with additional features coming soon. Digital payment using the Costco credit card, it's in pilot in several locations with full rollout by the middle of next month. The ability to view warehouse receipts online, also next month. More detail on online purchases as well. And by October end, we -- an improved mobile site, improved look and feel, a new landing page and expanded information both for dot-com use and for enhanced warehouse information. From a supply chain perspective -- I want to go back to two things, supply chain and inflation. From a supply chain perspective, the factors pressuring supply chains and inflation include port delays, container shortages, COVID disruptions, shortages on various components, raw materials and ingredients, labor cost pressures and trucker and driver shortages -- trucks and driver shortages. Domestically, anecdotally rather, from -- even on the domestic side, various major brands are requesting longer lead times, some cases, difficulty in finding drivers and trucks on short notice. Lead times on ingredients and packaging have been extended in some cases. So planning is crucial, which I feel we -- our people have done a great job with that over the last several months. Also, we're putting some limitations on key items, like bath tissues, roll towels, Kirkland Signature water, high-demand cleaning-related SKUs related to the uptick in Delta-related demand. Furniture delays and some shortages have caused traditional rollout times to go from eight to 12 weeks -- from eight to 12 weeks up to 16 to 18 weeks. In some ways, we think that's an advantage. We're selling out generally merchandise once it's received within two weeks on most items. And we've ordered more and earlier. Same thing with toys in season, we're bringing in some of the items early. Chip shortages impacting many items, as I mentioned in the last call. Examples of impacted items: computers, tablets, video games, major appliances. Feeling is from the buyers is this will likely extend into 2022. Again, we're ordering as much as we can and getting it in earlier. And I think as evidenced by the most recent sales results, we're doing OK with this. Despite these issues -- sorry, in terms of transportation costs, they're increasing. We're reading about it every day. Containers, trucks and drivers all are impacting the timing of deliveries and higher freight costs. Despite all these issues, we continue to work to mitigate cost increases in a variety of different ways and hold down and/or mitigate our price increases passed on to the members. We've also chartered three ocean vessels for the next year to transport containers between Asia and the U.S. and Canada. And we've leased several thousand containers for use on these ships. Every ship can carry 800 to 1,000 containers at a time, and we'll make approximately 10 deliveries during the course of the next year. Moving to inflation. Again, there have been many -- there have been a variety of inflationary pressures that we and others are seeing, and more of it. As I discussed on last quarter's call, inflationary factors abound: higher labor costs, higher freight costs, higher transportation demand, along with container shortages and port delays, increased demand in certain product categories, various shortages of everything from computer chips to oils and chemicals, higher commodities prices. It's a lot of fun right now. Some inflationary soundbites, if you will. Price increases on items shipped across the oceans, some suppliers or us paying to six times for containers and shipping. Price increases of pulp and paper goods, some items up 4% to 8%. Again, we're trying to mitigate those where we can, and we think we've done a decent job of mitigating some of it. Plastics, resin increases on things like trash bags, Ziploc SKUs, pet products -- resin or [Inaudible] PET products, plastic cups, plates, plastic wrap, many items up in the 5% to 11% range. Metals, again, aluminum foil, mid-single-digit cost increases, as well as cans for sodas and other beverages. I mentioned commodities earlier, oil, coffee, nuts, they remain generally according to our buyers at five-year highs and so on. Higher import prices on things from Europe like cheeses, but the combination of freight and FX. 3% to 10% increases on certain but not all apparel items. And fresh foods, inflation is up in the mid- to high single digits, with meat leading the way, up high single to low double digits due to feed, labor and transportation costs. Now I was asked back in March at our second-quarter earnings call, at what level we felt inflation was running overall on the sell price side. I stated that our best guess at the time was somewhere between 1% and 1.5%. I updated that 16 weeks earlier -- 16 weeks ago on our May 26 third-quarter call, and we estimate to be in the 2.5% to 3.5% range. As of today and talking with our senior merchants, we would estimate overall price inflation of the products we're selling to be in the 3.5% to 4.5% range. As I discussed earlier, this inflation was the driver of the $30 million LIFO charge that we took in the quarter. But all of this said, I feel very good with the job that our merchants, our traffic department and our operators have all been doing and able to -- in order to get the products that we need, pivot when and where necessary and keep our warehouses full while keeping prices as low as we can for our members and continue to show incredible value versus our competitors. I think this is reflected in our strong reported sales and profits that we've achieved despite challenges and our typical aggressive pricing. Finally, in terms of upcoming releases, we will announce our September sales results for the five weeks ending Sunday, October 3, on Wednesday, October 6, after the market close. And with that, I will open it up for questions with Ann. Ann? Thank you.  