
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Molson Coors Beverage Company Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Earnings Conference Call. You can find related slides on the Investor Relations page of the Molson Coors website. Our speakers today are Gavin Hattersley, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Tracey Joubert, Chief Financial Officer.With that, I'll hand it over to Greg Tierney, Vice President of FP&A and Investor Relations.Greg Tierney -- Investor Relations

 



Thank you, operator, and hello, everyone. Following prepared remarks from Gavin and Tracey, we will take your questions. [Operator Instructions] If you have technical questions on the quarter, please pick them up with our Investor Relations team in the days and weeks to follow. Today's discussion includes forward-looking statements, and actual results or trends could differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our most recent filings with the SEC. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. GAAP reconciliations for any non-U.S. GAAP measures are included in our news release. And also, unless otherwise indicated, all financial results the company discusses are versus the comparable prior year period and in U.S. dollars.And with that, over to you, Gavin.Gavin Hattersley -- President And Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Greg. Good morning, and thank you, everybody, for joining us today. Nearly two years ago, we laid out the Molson Coors revitalization plan, a multiyear strategy to deliver the sustainable top line growth that has eluded our business for many years, while at the same time, delivering sustainable bottom line growth. Under the plan, we have streamlined the company on reinvesting those savings to build on the strength of our iconic core, aggressively grow our above premium portfolio, expand beyond the beer aisle, enhance our capabilities and support our people and communities. We had a few doubters then and we had some unexpected challenges since, from a global pandemic to severe Texas winter storms to a cyberattack in our company. But nearly two years later, we can say to those doubters with confidence that Molson Coors is on the path to deliver sustainable top and bottom line growth. Our performance this quarter speaks for itself. I say that because for nearly two years, we've talked a lot about the outputs of our revitalization plan, new investments, new partnerships, new product launches and new campaigns. But today, we're able to start talking meaningfully the outcomes from the revitalization plan, and that's an important shift. In the second quarter, despite ongoing pandemic restrictions, we delivered the most top line growth of any quarter in over a decade, and we nearly achieved 2019 net sales revenue levels on a constant currency basis despite those pandemic restrictions during this quarter.

 



I'm incredibly pleased with this progress, but it's a strong indicator of what is yet to come through our revitalization plan. Our progress was primarily driven by three things. First, it was driven by the fact that we delivered the best brand mix in the United States since the inception of the MillerCoors joint venture in 2008. This significant premiumization of our portfolio was led by the strong growth of our U.S. hard seltzers, where we doubled our share of the U.S. hard seltzer segment in the second quarter. We took over as the global brewer with the fastest-growing U.S. seltzer portfolio. And we recently passed another major brewer and are fourth in total U.S. seltzer shares, we continue to move toward our goal of achieving a 10 share in the U.S. by year-end. Those are outcomes. We're also continuing to see strong traction with our Vizzy innovation. Vizzy's fast-turning new lemonade variety pack helped the Vizzy brand gain almost a full point of U.S. share in the second quarter. And we just added another new package to that family with Vizzy Watermelon, which has been a hit with retailers thus far. Topo Chico Hard Seltzer continues to exceed our expectations in the 16 markets in which it's sold in the U.S. The demand has far outpaced our original plans for the brand, and with supply improving, we are now positioned to be more aggressive in marketing this brand. That is an outcome. Outside of the U.S., our Canadian hard seltzer portfolio continues to perform very well. The combination of Vizzy and Coors Hard Seltzer has earned more than a 50 share of the hard seltzer category with the largest beer retailer in the country.Vizzy specifically has earned the number one spot in the on-premise in key regions like Ontario, and we're looking forward to fuel this momentum with Vizzy Lemonade, which launched in Canada just a few weeks ago. That's an outcome. In Europe, Three Fold in the U.K. and WAI Moment in Central and Eastern Europe continue to build distribution and consumer awareness with a strong mix of brand advertising. The category is still at an early stage, but we are well positioned to win share and develop our portfolio as popularity around hard seltzers continues to grow. And while our fast-growing hard seltzer portfolio is driving our premiumization, it's not alone. Madri continues to exceed expectations in the U.K. on-premise with unprecedented consumer demand. And Pravha from the Staropramen stable of brands is performing ahead of expectations in the Central and Eastern European markets beating initial estimates by more than 50%. Our Latin America business, where our global brands primarily operate in the above premium price segment, has exceeded expectations given the coronavirus pandemic throughout the region. Collectively, for the first half of 2021, the region is exceeding brand volume levels for the comparable 2019 period despite continued government-issued pandemic restrictions. For example, our Puerto Rican operations, which had been in long-term decline, are currently growing. Those are outcomes. In Canada, our Six Pints craft division is growing absolute volume despite its reliance on the on-premise.In the U.S., Blue Moon LightSky was the number one new beer item in 2020 and has grown double digits this year, building off its strong base, while Leinenkugel Summer Shandy brand volume is up 10% year-to-date. Those are outcomes. And in just a few weeks, the Yuengling joint venture will launch in the state of Texas, where distributor, retailer and customer interest has been incredibly high. Product shipments begin next week and are scheduled to hit retail by August 23. The other factor that drove the best brand in more than a decade is a rationalization of the long, long tail of our economy portfolio in the U.S. As we have discussed, in recent months in the U.S., we paused production of a number of smaller low-margin, slow-moving economy brands and SKUs. This allowed us to improve our brewing efficiency and stabilize inventories of our core brands, and it also premiumized our portfolio and improved our margins, and we intend to maintain that higher level of premiumization and service. So after an extensive analysis of our business, we are meaningfully streamlining and premiumizing our U.S. portfolio, discontinuing around 100 SKUs, including the elimination of 11 economy brands altogether. This will improve supply chain flexibility for our more profitable priority brands, enhance our innovation efforts, enable us to better focus resources and ensure dependable and on-time shipments to our distributors. Let's be clear, while economy brands have typically not been a focus of the investment community, distributors who sell brands like Magnum and Mickey's Ice are going to feel it when they're discontinued.So our local sales teams are partnering with distributors and retailers on a market-by-market basis on exit plans and to identify swaps that make sense. So the headline is simple, premiumization is here to stay at Molson Coors. We're going to invest bigger behind our fast-growing global hard seltzer portfolio, and we're going to permanently streamline our smaller portfolio of legacy brands. We're excited about the progress we're making, and we're not about to stop now. Our top line growth was also driven by the strength of our core brands and the pace of the return to the on-premise. Coors Light and Miller Lite again grew share of the U.S. premium light segment. With on-premise accounts reopening in a big way across the U.S., the brands were at 97% of their total 2019 STR volume in the second quarter. Coors Light specifically achieved its best half year share trend in four years, and its U.S. STRs rose by 1.7% in the second quarter. At the same time, Miller Lite grew 3.2% in the U.S. in the quarter. In Canada, Coors Light has grown share with our largest retail customer for four straight quarters. Our top line growth was also aided by the investments we have made in our beyond beer initiatives. Standing here at the end of July, ZOA has already far surpassed our expectations for the entire year and its co-owner, Dwayne Johnson, continues to amplify the product across his massive social media presence as well as through a new TV campaign that debuted during the Olympics this month. The RTD coffee market is estimated at $4.3 billion in 2021, and La Colombe has ranked number one in the above premium category. We're excited about the progress we are making and continue to have success with distribution to large national and regional retailers in both the drug and convenience store channels. Truss Canada, our joint venture with HEXO, has grown to more than a 50 share of the Canadian cannabis beverage industry and now hold seven of the top 10 SKUs in the country.

 



And in the U.S., after starting in the Denver Metro area, Truss U.S. has expanded distribution to other distributors and independent retailers across the state, a strong vote of confidence in the joint venture's plan and in its brands. As I said earlier, the results from the second quarter demonstrate that the revitalization plan is starting to pay off. So we're going to continue investing in our business, in our people and in our communities to continue driving the results we're starting to see. You saw that in the last quarter as we announced two new projects to increase our global hard seltzer production capacity. In Canada, we announced plans to quadruple our in-house hard seltzer production capacity. And in the U.K., we announced plans to add a new hard seltzer canning line in our Burton-upon-Trent brewery, while also upgrading our beer and cider packaging facilities to drive efficiencies. Those two investments follow a similar effort last year to increase our hard seltzer production capacity fivefold in the U.S. These investments will have long-lasting benefits as we bring more production in-house and ultimately improve our profit margin. But the investments in our business are not stopping there. Finally, after more than a year of pandemic-related challenges, we're going to be able to more fully invest behind our brands. Now what does that mean? While sticking in the U.K. for a moment, Three Fold hard seltzer is backed by the biggest brand investment Molson Coors has ever made into a new U.K. category. And you can expect to see a boost in our marketing spending over the second half of the year as well. That's because markets are opening back up. Our local alliances are reactivating for the first time in over a year, and our inventory will have recovered to a point that it makes sense to more fully invest behind the brand marketing. As important as that is, our success or failure as a company isn't entirely defined by our top line growth.It's also determined in part by how well we support our approximately 17,000 employees and support our hometown communities all around the world. That's why we directly engaged our North American employees in what we call Project Justice, an effort we started last summer and have continued in 2021. Through this initiative, we are supporting 33 organizations across the U.S. and Canada that are working to create a more just and inclusive world. That's also why we're expanding our scholarship program for U.S. college students of color, who are pursuing careers in fermentation and brewing sciences as we work to bring more diverse voices to our industry. And that's why we're looking within our organization to improve the representation of women and people of color across the biggest part of our business. We also just released our annual ESG report called Our Imprint, with a refreshed strategy that focuses on two key pillars: people and planet. From eliminating plastic rings in the U.K., to saving over 100 million gallons of water annually through our Golden Brewery modernization project to the significant work we are doing to support our people, we've made great progress against our goals. And stay tuned as we continue our ESG journey. We've had our share of challenges over the last several years, but that is changing. And today, the sign is also the same thing, Molson Coors' future is bright and the revitalization plan is succeeding. We're deleveraging our business. We've reinstated a dividend. We're thinking more consciously about how we best support our people and the communities in which we operate. We're investing behind our brands. We're reshaping our portfolio, and we're expanding into new spaces. Nearly two years into our revitalization plan, our results are improving. We're going to put our foot even more firmly on the gas pedal as we drive toward our sustainable top and bottom line growth initiative for this business.Tracey?Tracey Joubert -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Gavin, and hello, everyone. We posted a strong second quarter, which exceeded expectations. We continue to make real progress executing our revitalization plan, and we are starting to see the results in our operating performance. As Gavin noted, we continue to premiumize our brands and strengthen our core business, and our improved financial flexibility has enabled us to invest in our business while continuing to delever our balance sheet and to reinstate a dividend. Now let me take you through our quarterly results in more detail and provide an update on our outlook. Consolidated net sales revenue increased 13.7% in constant currency, delivering 98% of second quarter 2019 levels despite continuing to operate with varying degrees of on-premise restrictions. Consolidated financial volumes improved 5.5%, outpacing brand volume growth of 3.1%, driven by higher Europe volumes and favorable U.S. domestic shipments. Top line performance benefited from on-premise reopenings in the quarter for most of our major markets as well as strong global net pricing, positive channel mix and historic favorable brand mix levels in the U.S. as we continue to premiumize our portfolio. Net sales per hectoliter on a brand volume basis increased 5% in constant currency, driven by pricing growth, coupled with positive brand and channel mix, partially offset by geographic mix given the strong growth in Europe and Latin America. This top line growth was somewhat offset by inflationary pressures, which impacted most consumer product companies as well as increased marketing investments as we continue to execute our revitalization plan.Underlying cost per hectoliter increased 8% on a constant currency basis, driven by cost inflation including higher freight and packaging costs. However, with robust hedging and cost savings programs, we have been able to significantly mitigate much of the inflationary pressure. MG&A in the quarter increased 25.3% on a constant currency basis as we cycle timing shifts and targeted reductions to marketing spend in the prior year period due to the coronavirus pandemic. As planned, we significantly increased marketing investments in the quarter, putting strong commercial pressure behind our key innovations and core brands. Underlying EBITDA decreased 1.3% on a constant currency basis but increased compared to 2019 second quarter level. Underlying free cash flow was $558.2 million for the first half of the year, a decrease of $238.2 million from the prior year period. This decrease was wholly driven by lapping roughly $500 million in benefit in the prior year related to tax deferrals due to governmental programs and was partially offset by favorable working capital and lower capital spend. Capital expenditures paid were $212 million for the first half of the year as we continue to invest behind capability programs such as our previously announced Golden Brewery modernization project in our new Montreal brewery.Capital expenditures were lower in the first half of the year compared to the prior year, primarily due to project timing. Now let's look at our results by business unit. In North America, the on-premise channel accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales revenue in the quarter compared to approximately 16% in the same period in 2019. In North America, on-premise reopenings vary by market. In the U.S., our largest market, we continue to see progressive reopenings during the quarter and attained over 80% of 2019 levels as of quarter end. In Latin America, restrictions continue to ease, while in Canada, significant restrictions continue throughout the quarter with on-premise volume about 1/4 of pre-pandemic levels. North America net sales revenue was up 8.3% in constant currency, driven by strong net pricing growth, positive brand mix in the U.S., favorable U.S. shipment timing and higher Latin America volumes. Of note, U.S. net sales revenue exceeded the second quarter 2019 levels. In the U.S., domestic shipment volumes increased 1.2%, outpacing brand volume declines of 4% as we focus on rebuilding inventory following the first quarter supply disruption. The brand volume declines were entirely due to economy, which was down double digits as we deprioritized certain noncore SKUs. Our best premium portfolio was up double digits and our premium brands were up low single digits. In fact, our U.S. above premium brand volumes reached a record-high portion of our portfolio compared to any prior quarter since the creation of the MillerCoors joint venture in 2008. Canada brand volumes declined 5.1%, while Latin America brand volumes experienced triple digit growth, driven by strong core brand performance.Net sales per hectoliter on a brand volume basis increased 4.7% in constant currency, with pricing growth delivered across all geographies. The U.S. increased 6.9%, driven by net pricing and historic levels of positive brand mix. While the intention decline in economy was a contributor, about half of this record mix performance was due to growth in above premium, led by innovation brands, including Vizzy, Topo Chico Hard Seltzer and ZOA. These positive factors were partially offset by negative geographic mix resulting from the restricted trading environment in the higher-revenue Canadian business and strong growth in Latin America. Underlying cost per hectoliter increased 8.5%, driven by inflation, including higher transportation and packaging materials costs and mix impacts from premiumization. Underlying MG&A increased 24.2% due to higher marketing investments. We increased marketing investment behind core innovation brands and we increased media spending behind our iconic core brands, Coors Light and Miller Lite. Our U.S. media spend approached 2019 levels while local tactical spend was somewhat constrained due to on-premise restrictions, which eased throughout the quarter. North America underlying EBITDA decreased 10.7% in constant currency as higher gross profit was more than offset by higher planned MG&A. Europe net sales revenue was up 52.3% in constant currency driven by volume increases and positive channel, geographic and brand mix due to on-premise progressive reopening, most meaningfully in the U.K., given the reduced on-premise restrictions compared to nearly full lockdowns in the prior year quarter.Above premium brand volumes reached a record-high portion of our Europe portfolio. Europe financial volumes increased 17.8% and brand volumes increased 15.4%, driven by a significant increase in U.K. on-premise volumes. Net sales per hectoliter on a brand volume basis increased 16.6%, driven by favorable channel, geographic and brand mix, particularly from our higher-margin, on-premise-focused U.K. business as well as positive pricing. Underlying EBITDA increased 189% in constant currency, driven by gross margin impact of higher volumes and favorable channel, geographic and brand mix as a result of gradual on-premise reopening, partially offset by higher MG&A expense. Turning to the balance sheet. As of June 30, 2021, we had lowered our net debt-to-underlying EBITDA ratio to 3.35 times and reduced our net debt to $6.9 billion, down from 3.5 times and $7.5 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2020. We ended the second quarter with strong borrowing capacity with no outstanding balance on our $1.5 billion U.S. credit facility. Turning to our financial outlook. We are again reaffirming our 2021 annual guidance originally provided on February 11, 2021. While we are certainly in a better place than we were a year ago, it pays reminding that uncertainty as it pertains to the coronavirus and its variants remains to varying degrees by market.Now I'll provide some underlying expectations to provide some additional context for the balance of the year. We expect to deliver mid-single-digit net sales revenue growth for the full year on a constant currency basis. Building off the strong shipment growth in the U.S. in the second quarter, we continue to work aggressively to build inventories to more optimal levels. In the U.S., we expect on-premise trends to continue to improve as we lap restrictions in the prior year period. In Canada, we are seeing gradual on-premise reopenings varying by province, which should provide positive channel mix. In Europe, the U.K. should benefit from this full on-premise reopening July 19. However, the comparison is more difficult than it was for the second quarter given the on-premise was largely opened for the full third quarter of 2020. Our guidance also anticipates continued strength in our above premium portfolio, particularly hard seltzers. Also, we expect continued solid progress against our previously discussed emerging growth three year revenue goal of $1 billion against which we are tracking ahead of plan. We continue to anticipate underlying EBITDA to be roughly flat compared to 2020 as top line growth is expected to be offset by continued cost inflationary headwinds, but more significantly from increased investments to deliver against our revitalization plan. We intend to increase marketing investments to build on the strength of our core brands and support successful innovation.As a result, we expect significant year-on-year increases in marketing investments over the balance of the year and most notably in the third quarter. We expect third quarter marketing investments to be higher than the second quarter of 2021 and also higher than the third quarter of 2019 as we continue to ramp up supply following the disruptions in the first quarter. Obviously, this will have an impact on our bottom line, particularly in the third quarter, but this will strengthen the future of our brands. Also, as a reminder, in 2020, our working capital benefited from the deferral of approximately $130 million in tax payments from various government-sponsored payment deferral programs related to the coronavirus pandemic. We currently anticipate the majority to be paid this year as they become due. Moving to capital allocation. We continue to prioritize investing in our business to drive top line growth and efficiencies, reducing debt and returning cash to shareholders. First, we plan to continue to prudently invest in brewery modernization and production capacity and capabilities to support new innovations and growth initiatives, improve efficiencies and advance toward our sustainability goal. Second, we have a strong desire to maintain and, in time, upgrade our investment-grade rating. As such, we expect to continue to pay down debt and reaffirm our target net debt to underlying EBITDA ratio to be approximately 3.25 times by the end of 2021 and below three times by the end of 2022.Demonstrating our commitment to this goal, on July 15, we announced that we had repaid in full the $1 billion 2.1% senior notes that were maturing that day using a combination of commercial paper and cash on hand. And third and also as announced on July 15, our Board of Directors determined to reinstate a quarterly dividend on our Class A and Class B common shares and declared a dividend -- a quarterly dividend of $0.34 per share. The Board made the decision to reinstate a dividend at a level that they believe is sustainable and gives room for future increases as business performance improves. We are proud of our operational performance in the quarter, which underscores successful execution against our revitalization plan. We are excited about the future of Molson Coors as we drive toward our goal of long-term sustainable revenue and underlying EBITDA growth.And with that, we look forward to taking your questions. Operator?