
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the First Quarter 2021 Zebra Technologies Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. Please note this event is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to Mike Steele, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Mike Steele -- Vice President, Investor RelationsGood morning, and welcome to Zebra's first quarter conference call. This presentation is being simulcast on our website at investors.zebra.com and will be archived there for at least one year.Slide 2 conveys that the forward-looking statements we make today are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially due to factors discussed in our SEC filings. During this call, we will reference non-GAAP financial measures as we describe our business performance. You can find reconciliations at the end of the slide presentation and in today's earnings press release.Throughout this presentation, unless otherwise indicated, our references to sales growth are year-over-year on a constant currency basis and exclude results from recently acquired businesses for the 12 months following each acquisition.This presentation will include prepared remarks from Anders Gustafsson, our Chief Executive Officer; and Nathan Winters, our Chief Financial Officer. Anders will begin with our first quarter results, and Nathan will provide additional detail on the financials and discuss our revised 2021 outlook. Anders will conclude with progress made on advancing our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision. Following the prepared remarks, Joe Heel, our Chief Revenue Officer will join us as we take your questions.Now let's flip to Slide 4, as I turn the call over to Anders.Anders Gustafsson -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mike. Good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us. Our team delivered exceptional first quarter results, with strong performance across the business, resulting in record sales and profits. For the quarter, we realized; adjusted net sales growth of 28% or 25% on an organic basis; and adjusted EBITDA margin of 25.3%, a 620 basis point year-over-year improvement; non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $4.79, a 79% increase from the prior year, and strong free cash flow.Our teams executed well to satisfy a stronger-than-expected recovery in demand from smaller customers through our distribution channel, and continued strong demand from large customers to digitize and automate their workflows in an increasingly on-demand economy. We realized strong broad-based demand with double-digit sales growth across our four regions, each major product and solutions category, as well as in all of our vertical end markets. We also significantly expanded profit margins, driven by favorable business mix and lower travel expenses, while at the same time, we continued to invest in initiatives to drive sustainable profitable growth. Given our momentum and pace of innovation, we are increasingly confident in our growth prospects.With that, I will now turn the call over to Nathan to review our Q1 financial results in more detail and discuss our improved 2021 outlook.Nathan Winters -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Anders. Let's start with the P&L on Slide 6. In Q1, adjusted net sales increased 28.3%, including the impact of currency and the Reflexis acquisition, and 25% on an organic basis, reflecting broad-based demand for our solutions. Direct sales to large customers grew double-digits, and we saw even higher growth from smaller customers through the channel, partially driven by pent-up demand. Our Asset Intelligence & Tracking segment, including printing and supplies grew 21.4%, while Enterprise Visibility & Mobility segment sales increased 26.8%, driven by exceptional growth in enterprise mobile computing.We realized strong double-digit growth in services and software. And also had strong growth in our RFID solutions, which is beginning to rebound from the depths of the pandemic. We recognized double-digit growth in all regions. In North America, sales increased 28%, with mobile computing, printing, services and supplies each growing double-digits. In EMEA, sales increased 22%, with solid growth across all sub regions and solutions offering. APAC returned to growth with sales up 19% led by strength in China, Australia, New Zealand and India. Latin America also returned to growth in all sub regions, with sales increasing 31%.Adjusted gross margin expanded 370 basis points to 48.9%, primarily driven by favorable business mix, and higher service and software margin. The favorable year-on-year impact from China tariffs was offset by $11 million of incremental premium freight charges. Adjusted operating expenses as a percentage of sales improved 280 basis points. We have been accelerating high return investments in the business, while prudently managing discretionary costs.First quarter adjusted EBITDA margin was 25.3%, a 620 basis point increase from the prior-year period, reflecting higher gross margin and operating expense leverage. We drove non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $4.79, a $2.12 or 79.4% year-over-year increase. EPS growth also benefited from lower interest expense and a lower share count, partially offset by a slightly higher tax rate.Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow highlights on Slide 7. We generated $214 million of free cash flow in Q1. This was $119 million higher than the prior year, primarily due to increased profitable growth. In Q1, we had $13 million of venture investments in two companies that provide real-time asset visibility and artificial intelligence solutions. Our balance sheet remains strong. From a debt leverage perspective, we ended Q1 at a modest 0.9 times net debt to adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio.Let's now turn to our outlook. We entered Q2 with a strong order backlog and healthy channel inventory levels. We're encouraged by the broad-based robust demand we are seeing across virtually every dimension of our business. As customers step up their plans to invest in digital transformation. This momentum along with our sales pipeline gives us the confidence to provide a strong Q2 guide and to substantially raise our full-year outlook.In Q2, we expect adjusted net sales to increase between 38% and 42%. This outlook assumes a 450 basis point to 500 basis point additive impact from the acquisition of Reflexis and foreign currency changes. We anticipate Q2 adjusted EBITDA margin to be between 21% and 22%, which assumes gross margin expansion and operating expense leverage. It also assumes approximately $18 million of premium freight expense, which is roughly the same gross profit impact we realized in Q2 2020 from the combination of premium freight, COVID mitigation and China tariff impacts. Non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $4.00 to $4.20.For the full year 2021, we are raising our guide for adjusted net sales growth to be between 18% and 22%, which reflects our increasing optimism for solid growth in the second half of the year, despite supply chain constraints from certain product components. This outlook assumes an approximately 3 percentage point additive impact from the acquisition of Reflexis and foreign currency changes. We have raised our expectation of full-year 2021 adjusted EBITDA margin to be between 22% and 23%, which assumes operating expense leverage and meaningful gross margin expansion from the prior year. Despite an expectation for premium freight charges of $50 million to $60 million as we work to mitigate global supply chain challenges. We now expect free cash flow to be at least $850 million for the year, due to our revised outlook for increased profitable growth. Please reference additional modeling assumptions shown on Slide 8.With that, I will turn the call back to Anders, to discuss how we're advancing our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision in the markets we serve.Anders Gustafsson -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Nathan. I am encouraged by the strengthening demand across our business, which allows us to increase our 2021 outlook. Our team has done an outstanding job navigating us through the pandemic. Slide 10 illustrates how we are working with our customers and partners to advance our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision. By leveraging Zebra's leading portfolio of products, solutions, software, and services our customers can overcome some of their most complex operational challenges and transform their frontline workflows to achieve higher levels of performance.Businesses across all industries are adopting solutions that digitize and automate their operations at the edge to help them compete more effectively in today's increasingly on-demand economy. With our innovative solutions, our customers frontline associates can now anticipate and react in near real-time, utilizing insights driven by advanced software capabilities such as machine learning, prescriptive analytics, and computer vision. We have been making solid progress integrating Reflexis market-leading workforce management and real-time task management solutions with our existing software applications to optimize the experience for frontline workers, as well as reduce complexity for the corporate teams that support them.Our value proposition is to ensure the best next action, where every worker is easily identified, assigned, and completed; leveraging artificial intelligence gathered from real-time inventory or point of sale data. We are receiving very positive feedback from customers on the software portfolio enhancements we have planned for this year, that will enable a unified experience across labor planning, tasking and workforce communications. We also continue to invest to accelerate the go-to market traction of our growing suite of solutions.Slide 11 highlights how the pandemic has accelerated trends that have been driving our business. Consumers have been raising their service level expectations in this on-demand economy. Enterprises are investing in Zebra solutions with an increased sense of urgency, due to a significant increase in omnichannel shopping. Forecasts for global e-commerce sales and parcel shipping volumes to double over the next several years. Track and trace becoming increasingly important for a wide range of use cases. And healthcare patients seeking a more digital experience.Automating strained workflows with proven technology provides an attractive return on investment. The benefits to the enterprise also include increased productivity and efficiency, as well as higher customer and patient satisfaction. These opportunities are not exclusive to large enterprise customers, as we are seeing similar trends with small and medium-sized businesses.To capitalize on the favorable e-commerce trends I just mentioned. Yesterday, we announced the launch of Zebra's first cloud-connected label printer designed specifically for the small business home office customer, featuring eco-friendly cartridges and mobile application software to easily design, and print labels from anywhere. With the launch of the ZSB Series printer, we enter an approximately $400 million market with an attractive recurring supplies revenue stream. We have been innovating at a record pace, despite the pandemic and this SOHO label printing offering is a proof point of our focus on expanding into attractive adjacent markets where we can provide a differentiated offering.Now turning to Slide 12. We understand the operational challenges our customers face in the increasingly on-demand economy. As a trusted strategic partner, businesses of all sizes in a variety of end markets turn to Zebra to help optimize end-to-end workflows. In retail, there has been a sharp increase in omnichannel and online shopping. To retain business, retailers need to deliver goods in a timely manner or make them available for pickup when promised. To address this challenge a wide range of retailers have been prioritizing investment in Zebra Solutions that provide higher inventory accuracy and utilize their labor more effectively.For example, a leading UK supermarket chain recently purchased over 5,000 Zebra ZQ610 mobile printers, for nearly 1,400 stores and added thousands more TC52, TC77s and PS20s for their existing Zebra fleet of devices, to enable inventory management, omnichannel fulfillment, and other critical use cases across their operations. They are also evaluating Zebra's workforce management and scheduling software applications we use across all their stores. Additionally, we have received very positive feedback from a large fashion accessories retail customer who has adopted our new option for zebra prescriptive analytics to feed directly into our Reflexis workforce and task management software offering. Other retail customers are planning to adopt this capability soon to leverage the synergistic benefits.In transportation and logistics, strong e-commerce adoption continues to drive exponential growth in parcel volumes, putting pressure on supply chains, even as they hire more workers. This is one of many reasons a wide variety of companies are attempting to digitize their operations with our technology. A large car-rental company recently began deploying 5,000 ET56 Rugged Tablets at their airport locations to enable mobile associates to perform point of sale check in for improved customer service.In healthcare, the need for real-time visibility into the entire patient journey, as well as the demand for technology that ensures safe and efficient care continue to make healthcare our highest growth end-market opportunity. The top ranked US hospital system recently selected Zebra's mobile scan and print solutions to integrate with their new electronic health record software application, where patient bedside care which enables positive Patient ID, specimen collection and medication verification. Zebra's easy-to-use mobility solution and device management applications allows this customer to streamline clinician workflows, increased accuracy, and enhanced safe patient care.Although the manufacturing sector has been hardest hit in 2020, sales rebounded to double-digit growth in Q1. We are focused on increasing automation in workflows for our customers and have been recognized as a thought leader in this market. We recently secured a takeaway win with a global food manufacturer, who purchased more than 1,000 Zebra MC93 mobile computers and 8051 tablets. This customer has been equipping an increasing number of associates with technology to enhance their manufacturing, shipping, and receiving workflows; ease-of-use, functionality, lifecycle management, and support were notable selection criteria cited by this customer.In closing, we are performing well in our primary end markets, and we are excited about the emerging prospects we see in newer markets to digitize and automate workflows.Now, I'll hand the call back over to Mike.Mike Steele -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThanks, Anders. We'll now open the call to Q&A. We ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up so that we can get to as many of you as possible.