  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Penn National Gaming third quarter conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Joe Jaffoni of investor relations. Please go ahead.Joe Jaffoni -- Investor Relations Thank you, Frank. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining Penn National Gaming's 2021 third quarter conference call. We'll get to management's presentation and comments momentarily as well as your questions and answers, but first, I'll review the safe harbor disclosure. In addition to historical facts or statements of current conditions, today's conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which involve risks and uncertainties.

 



 These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminologies such as expects, believes, estimates, projects, intends, plans, seeks, may, will, should or anticipates or the negative or other variations of these or similar words or by discussion of future events, strategies or risks, and uncertainties, including future plans, strategies, performance, developments, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and operating results. Such forward-looking statements reflect the company's current expectations and beliefs but are not guarantees of future performance. As such, actual results may vary materially from expectations. The risks and uncertainties associated with the forward-looking statements are described in today's news announcement and in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the company's reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.Penn National assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Today's call and webcast will also include non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of SEC Regulation G. When required, a reconciliation of all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP can be found in today's press release as well as on the company's website. Thank you for your patience with that. And it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to the company's CEO, Jay Snowden. Jay, please go ahead. Jay Snowden -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Joe. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us for our third quarter earnings call. As usual, I have here with me in Wyomissing, our CFO, Felicia Hendrix, our head of operations, Todd George, and other members of my executive team who can help answer your questions during the Q&A session. As you can see from our earnings release and corresponding investor presentation, we achieved many significant milestones during the third quarter. We successfully launched the Barstool Sportsbook mobile app in five new states, which more than doubled the size of our footprint. And just this week, we launched in Iowa, bringing our total to 10 live states. We also continue to grow and evolve our brick-and-mortar footprint. During the quarter, we opened Hollywood Casino, York, and Pennsylvania. The strong initial results began to roll out our market-leading cashless, cardless, and contactless 3Cs technology across the portfolio and have continued to see tangible benefits of our highly differentiated omnichannel strategy. On the core business side, the third quarter was really a tale of two halves for us. July started off with the same positive momentum we saw in the second quarter with revenues up 10% over 2019 and adjusted EBITDAR up 40%. That momentum slowed beginning in the second half of August and into September due to Hurricane Ida, which affected us significantly in the South region and the regional flare-ups of the Delta variant, which combined impacted property adjusted EBITDAR and adjusted EBITDAR margins by an estimated $30 million and 85 basis points, respectively. Additionally, the other segment results reflect $7.5 million of expenses related to new state launches of the Barstool Sportsbook app that I mentioned earlier this quarter as well as $12.5 million for our share of the initial campaign expenses for the sports betting ballot initiative in California. Looking ahead, October reflects more of what we saw in the first half of the third quarter with strong property level performance across our segments with a few notable exceptions due to new competition in Colorado and Indiana and the residual effects of Pennsylvania's continued gaming expansion. Engagement among our younger demographic continues to be strong and is more than offsetting the decline we saw in our older demos in the quarter due to delta.

 



 Further, our VIP segment, which grew 33% year over year in the third quarter continues to outperform. Notably, our retail Barstool Sportsbook concepts are continuing to stimulate database growth and increase frequency of visitation in the younger segments while also boosting gaming and food and beverage spend. Our retail sports books are now No. 1 in handle market share in the states of Indiana, Iowa, West Virginia, and Michigan and we're excited to announce the recent opening of two new retail sports books this week in Louisiana at L'Auberge Baton Rouge and Boomtown New Orleans with more to come in the coming weeks. We cannot be more pleased with the momentum we are seeing in our Interactive business with monthly active users for the Barstool Sportsbook and casino growing over six times what they were in September of last year. We have been able to achieve this growth while maintaining our disciplined approach to marketing, which has resulted in blended customer acquisition costs of under $100 for the year. In addition to our increased footprint, new features to the Barstool Sportsbook app, including Parlay+, which is same game Parlay and Shareable Bet Slips have also driven performance. We are now seeing well over 100,000 bets per week on Parlay+, which is leading to higher engagement and higher hold rates and the shareable bet feature is really helping to leverage our strength in social media with over 140,000 bets shared last week alone. I'm pleased to say that the Barstool Sportsbook is now tied also for first among all mobile sports betting apps in the Apple Store -- Apple App store, excuse me, with a user rating of 4.8 on a scale of 5.0. With the return of football, we have successfully developed top three to top five handle market share positions in every state that has reported so far in September, while continuing our disciplined approach to marketing that I referenced earlier. In September, we proved the strength of our approach as one of only three operators in both Michigan and Pennsylvania to generate positive net gaming revenue despite a relatively unfavorable hold percentage versus the competition. Our Penn Interactive team, which has obviously been very busy this quarter, also rolled out a Barstool-branded live dealer studio in New Jersey, which for those of you that caught it was being played and live streamed last night by Big Cat and Logan Paul for some pretty amazing content. And also last week, launched our first in-house developed digital iCasino game from our Hit Point acquisition called Barstool Blackjack. We expect these products to drive additional cross-sell from the Barstool audience with further iCasino upgrades on the horizon. All of this positive momentum will be greatly enhanced by our acquisition of theScore, which officially closed on October 19. With Barstool's wide audience reach at the top of the customer acquisition funnel and theScore's ability to engage and retain sports fans with its highly complementary content, we're creating a one-stop destination for the consumer that simply doesn't exist today. In addition, as the No. 1 sports media app in Canada, theScore is uniquely positioned to capitalize on the legalization of single event sports wagering in Ontario with the launch of theScore Bet when the market opens, which now looks likely to occur in Q1 of 2022. We anticipate theScore Bet app will be the brand we lead with in Canada, while we continue to lead with our Barstool Sportsbook app in the US. But both brands will mutually benefit from the marketing support of Barstool Sports and the integration with theScore's media app. Looking forward, we are focused on building a highly differentiated and fully integrated media and sports betting tech solutions with our partners at theScore while opportunistically pursuing revenue growth, including new markets such as Ontario. Despite these significant planned investments in product and marketing and the delayed launch from what we initially anticipated in Ontario, we expect our Interactive business to generate a loss of only approximately $20 million in the fourth quarter. As I hope you've come to learn what really sets Penn apart from the competition is our strategy to buy and build, whether it's brands, experiences, loyal customers, products, tech stack, versus the renting of eyeballs via aggressive traditional marketing tactics. Our goal continues to be developing bespoke products and features with features and promos that are experiential, fun, and differentiated, rather than relying primarily on paid advertising, our promos often include unique bets, branded merchandise, and VIP Barstool experiences that simply can't be found elsewhere. We expect that this approach is the right long-term strategy and will result in a best-in-class margin profile and loyalty and retention. The power of our fully integrated omnichannel and media strategy was on full display during our successful promotion and event held in late August at our Hollywood Casino, Aurora property. As you know, Illinois currently requires in-person registration for new mobile sports wagering player accounts at a casino. By featuring a special promotion on the Chicago Bears game, which culminated in a block party in the parking lot of our casino attended by key Barstool talent, we were able to drive nearly 10,000 first-time depositors over a 5-day period with minimal paid media expense. That 10,000 for context, compares to we were averaging about 25 to 30 per day up until that point. Finally, before turning it over to Felicia for a brief overview of our financials, I wanted to know how impressed we continue to be with the ability of our partners at Barstool Sports to leverage their growing and loyal audience by pursuing opportunities outside of traditional sports media or betting, starts unlocking huge new channels of future growth. One Bite Pizza is one of the highest-selling products in the frozen food section at Walmart stores across the country. Incredibly, Barstool is now also representing over 135,000 collegiate athletes under the NCAAs new name, image and likeness rules, and they're continuing to extend their established media footprint by securing the broadcast rights to the Arizona Bull as well as playing a prominent role in the recent Jake Paul versus Tyron Woodley fight on Showtime, which featured commentary from Dave and Big Cat during the broadcast. Now I'll turn it over to Felicia.Felicia Hendrix -- Head of operations, Todd George Thanks, Jay, and good morning, everyone. We reported revenues of $1.5 billion and adjusted EBITDAR of $480 million in the third quarter. Revenues were 10% above the 3Q '19 levels and adjusted EBITDAR was 17% higher. There were a number of onetime items that affected results in the quarter, which Jay discussed earlier. A detailed breakout of these items can be found on Slide 5 of our earnings deck, which was posted on our website this morning. As Jay mentioned, we achieved a major milestone last month as we closed on our almost $2 billion acquisition of Score Media and Gaming and proudly welcome theScore team into our Penn family. We are excited about what lies ahead, and we continue our evolution into being North America's leading digital sports content and entertainment company. As for several housekeeping items, corporate expense which is reported in our other segment was $27.8 million in the quarter. Our cash rent payments were $228.5 million, cash taxes were $47.9 million and cash interest was $21.7 million. Maintenance capex was $52.3 million. And we remain on track and on budget for the opening of our second category for casino in Pennsylvania later this year, Hollywood Casino Morgantown. Our balance sheet continues to be a key asset for us as we remain focused on growth even following our acquisition of theScore. Total liquidity as of September 30, 2021, was $3.4 billion, consisting of $2.7 billion in cash and our $700 million undrawn revolver. Traditional net debt was $45 million, a decrease of $71 million during the quarter, principally due to repayments under our senior secured credit facilities. Our lease-adjusted net leverage was 3.9 times based on trailing 12-month EBITDAR. As a reminder of our roughly $2 billion purchase of theScore, approximately $923 million was paid in cash, and we estimate the transaction was levering by half a turn. As the delta outbreak reminded us in the third quarter, the environment remains uncertain while the future looks bright, and we believe we can continue to generate revenues and adjusted EBITDAR above 2019 levels, we continue to maintain our current policy of not providing guidance, and we will reevaluate quarter to quarter. And with that, I'll turn it back over to Jay.Jay Snowden -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Felicia. I referenced Hurricane Ida earlier in my remarks. It really is incredible when you stop to think about it that this storm hit on August 29, 16 years ago to the day after Hurricane Katrina devastated much of the Gulf Coast. I've been overwhelmed, but I have to say not surprised by the response from our team members across the country in the aftermath, which once again demonstrated the compassion and dedication our Penn family has for one another. With limited supplies available in New Orleans and basic utilities completely disabled our sister properties quickly helps to provide temporary housing and much-needed provisions. In addition, our Penn National Gaming Foundation established the Hurricane Ida Emergency Relief Fund for team members to apply for financial assistance for immediate needs. Meanwhile, we continue to expand our support for our nation's heroes. One of our newest partner organizations is the Concussion Legacy Foundation, which launched a special project focused on CTE and PTSD research on veterans. In addition, in the wake of our country's withdrawal from Afghanistan, we are offering financial support to the No One Left Behind organization to provide funds to help Afghan special immigration Visa recipients with food, housing, clothing and a no-interest loan program, which helps immigrant families become self-sufficient. One of our fellows from the US Chamber of Commerce is hiring our Heroes program, which helps active military personnel transition back into civilian life, recently volunteered at Fort Pickett to help some of the 6,000 temporary refugees there learn new job search skills to help acclimate life in America. Also during the quarter, with female members comprising 44% of our corporate board of directors, Penn has been recognized by two separate organizations for its board diversity efforts. We were named a champion of Board diversity by the form of executive women, the Greater Philadelphia Region's premier women's organization, and we will also be honored on November 10 at the Women's Forum of New York's annual Breakfast of Champions for leading the way of gender balance on corporate boards. And with that, I'd like to hand it back over to Frank to open up the line for questions. 