
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Comcast First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the call over to Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Ms. Marci Ryvicker. Please go ahead, Ms. Ryvicker.Marci Ryvicker -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, operator, and welcome everyone. Joining me on this morning's call are Brian Roberts, Mike Cavanagh, Dave Watson, Jeff Shell and Dana Strong. Brian and Mike will make formal remarks, while Dave, Jeff and Dana will also be available for Q&A.Let me now refer you to Slide 2, which contains our Safe Harbor disclaimer and remind you that this conference call may include forward-looking statements, subject to certain risks and uncertainties. In addition, during this call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please see our 8-K and trending schedules for the reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.With that, let me turn the call over to Brian Roberts for his comments. Brian?Brian L. Roberts -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Marci, and good morning, everyone. We certainly got off to a great start this year. Our entire company performed well and we once again had particularly strong results at Cable, which posted its third consecutive quarter of double-digit EBITDA growth, ninth consecutive quarter of double-digit net cash flow growth. We added 461,000 broadband customers, which drove 380,000 customer relationship additions. This is the best first quarter on record. Our connect activity was healthy and broadband churn improved for the 13th quarter in a row, hitting our lowest churn rate in our company's history. I'm very proud of this quarter's results and our long record of growth, which I believe is a direct result of disciplined investment, fantastic innovation and consistent execution in a highly competitive market.This morning I'd like to go a bit deeper in two areas; the robustness of our network in the U.S., and more broadly, how we've positioned ourselves to successfully compete against alternative providers and technologies. We spent nearly $30 billion in the last decade building an expansive fiber-dense network comprised of 191,000 route miles that carries an immense amount of traffic, has demonstrated extraordinary performance throughout the pandemic.Under Tony Werner, our retiring Chief Technology Officer, we have consistently engineered our network to anticipate change. And during his 15-plus years at Comcast, he has helped transform us into a product and technology innovator and leader. Tony, we thank you. He is being succeeded by Charlie Herrin. Many of you on this call are familiar with Charlie. He helped develop game-changing products, including scaling X1 and most recently led the successful effort to redefine how we interact with customers, which has resulted in significantly higher NPS scores and lower operating costs.Charlie, Dave and I have been fortunate to work together for 20 years. Under Dave and Tony, we've recruited the best engineering talent around the world. And now we're working as one global tech team to create platforms, apps, experiences that evolve the way people connect and consume entertainment. We've done all this while keeping the network our number one priority. We've introduced the xFi Advanced Gateway, the most powerful of its kind. Our highest users are connecting a wide variety of devices in the home and streaming multiple services simultaneously over WiFi. Our xFi Pods integrate with Xfinity gateways to form a mesh network that maximizes WiFi coverage. All you do is plug one of these pods into an outlet to get great coverage in every room.

 



We provide our customers with what they need, which goes well beyond extraordinary connectivity and speed. Xfinity is the only broadband provider to offer advanced security for monitoring devices inside and soon outside of the home. We also uniquely provide our customers with a whole home speed test and enable parents to manage Internet time spent by streaming application.This is all backed by a network that is built to consistently deliver the fastest speed and outperform well into the future with two major initiatives under way. The first is virtualizing our network by leveraging artificial intelligence and machine learning. We're taking functions that were once performed by thousands of large and expensive pieces of hardware and moving them into the cloud, which alone has reduced innovation cycles from years down to just months. We're also automating many of our core network functions so that we can deliver instant capacity as well as identify and fix network issues before they ever affect the customer.Our second priority is further enhancing how we deliver our broadband product over our network. We currently offer downstream speeds of 1.2 gigs across our entire footprint using our DOCSIS 3.1 architecture and can increase upstream in a capital-efficient way. We're making great progress to deliver multi-gig symmetrical speeds. In the last six months, we completed two important milestones on our roadmap. In October, we conducted a successful live test of 1.25-gig symmetrical speeds. And earlier this month, our engineers completed the first ever live lab test of DOCSIS 4.0, which establishes a foundation for us to deliver multi-gigabit speeds over our existing network without the need for massive digging and construction projects.Let me next talk about Xfinity Mobile where we're having great success. This past quarter, we reached breakeven on a stand-alone basis for the first time and added 278,000 mobile lines, the highest quarterly addition since launch. We just announced a new unlimited family plan, which can provide $600 in annual savings relative to other competitor family plans.Now let's turn to Sky, which despite renewed lockdowns in Europe, generated revenue growth and delivered the best first quarter customer relationships net addition in six years. I am particularly encouraged by our strong performance in the U.K. Excluding pubs and clubs, which remain closed, U.K. direct-to-consumer revenue grew 8% over the first quarter 2020 and 11% relative to 2019. Churn continued to trend down. Two-thirds of our customer base in the U.K. now have Sky Q. We're seeing great acceleration in mobile. And we just launched Sky Connect, our B2B broadband service that leverages the expertise of Comcast Cable. Dana Strong is off to a great start and is sinking up more than ever with Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal so that together we're all innovating more quickly, better serving our customers and viewers and increasing operating efficiencies.We're also encouraged by the trends we're seeing across NBCU. Our parks segment broke even excluding Beijing for the second consecutive quarter driven by remarkable attendance at Universal Orlando. We can see first-hand the pent-up demand for high quality entertainment and family fun outside of the home. And we remained incredibly bullish on the parks business. While Osaka recently had to close temporarily, Universal Studios Hollywood reopened on April 16, first time since the pandemic started. Our long-term excitement stems from the fact that we have a fabulous roadmap of new attractions and experiences awaiting guests as they safely return to our current parks.In NBCUniversal's Media segment under Jeff Shell and Mark Lazarus, we're starting to see the benefits of our new operating structure. Excluding Peacock, adjusted EBITDA increased 10% year-over-year. Our news content continues to experience tremendous momentum and distribution revenue was trending above expectations, a testament to the strength of our linear brands. We're back in business on the studios side with more than 30 television series currently in production. And we're excited for our first big theatrical debut with Fast 9, launching in both the U.S. and China later in the second quarter.We're also making great progress with Peacock, our premium ad-supported streaming service. Just one year post-launch, we have 42 million sign ups. Monthly users of this service are consuming nearly 20% more programming hours each month than our traditional audience on NBC, and we just crossed 1 billion total hours watched, nearly double our plan when we launched. This strength in users and engagement has enabled us to create additional advertising inventory outside of our initial partnership with CPMs at a material premium to linear prime time.Key to Peacock's domestic success has been Xfinity with X1 and Flex driving subscriber acquisitions and healthy engagement. With Peacock, we've created great options for ourselves with several opportunities on the horizon. We've recently secured more original programming with creative partners like WWE at the NFL, providing a strong path to upsell into Peacock Premium. As Peacock gained scale in the U.S., we see compelling ways we can expand internationally. We're looking to take advantage of the brand and scale of Sky across our European markets, and potentially strike partnerships with local programmers and distributors in geographies where it makes sense. We plan to share more information on Peacock throughout this year.So in summary, we're all very proud and encouraged by our first quarter results. This performance is a testament to the resilience and evolution of our company. Excellent execution of our growth initiatives combined with tight cost control brings us one step closer to our balance sheet goals, and I am eager to see us return to our historical practice of repurchasing shares starting in the second half of this year.Lastly, I want to thank our team. Every one across the company has continued to show up and innovate for our customers, audience, guests and each other. We were recently named as one of the top five Big Companies to Work For in the U.S. and one of the top 10 Inclusive Companies in the U.K., a testament to the work and passion of our wonderful employees.Mike, over to you.Michael J. Cavanagh -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. I'll begin on Slide 4 with our first quarter consolidated 2021 results. Revenue increased 2.2% to $27.2 billion. Adjusted EBITDA increased 3.5% to $8.4 billion. Adjusted EPS increased 7% to $0.76 per share. And finally, we generated $5.3 billion of free cash flow.Now let's turn to our business segment results, starting with Cable Communications on Slide 5. Cable revenue increased 5.9% to $15.8 billion, EBITDA increased 12% to $6.8 billion and EBITDA less capital grew 16% to $5.1 billion. We added 380,000 net new customer relationships, up 2.4% over last year's first quarter and up 27% over the first quarter of 2019. This was the best first quarter on record and was driven by broadband where we added 461,000 net new residential and business customers, only slightly below last year's first quarter and 23% above the first quarter of 2019.We saw a healthy connect activity, and this quarter marked the lowest broadband churn in our history. This positive momentum has continued into the second quarter. And from what we see today, we anticipate total broadband additions for the year to grow by mid-single-digit levels compared to 2019, which aside from the extraordinary growth we had in an unusual 2020, was the best year in more than a decade.The strong customer additions coupled with ARPU growth of 4.4% drove a 12% increase in broadband revenue for the first quarter, the largest driver of overall cable revenue, and we expect this trend will continue. We also saw an acceleration in both business services and wireless. Business services revenue increased 6.1% and delivered 11,000 net new customer additions, primarily driven by continued improvement in small business. Wireless revenue grew 50% due to an increase in both customer lines and higher device sales. We added 278,000 net new lines in the quarter, the best result since launching this business in 2017, bringing us to 3.1 million total lines as of quarter end.Turning to video. Revenue was consistent with the prior year, reflecting very healthy ARPU growth of 6.8%, offset by net video subscriber losses totaling 491,000, which we felt mostly on the connect side as residential churn improved year-over-year. We believe our residential rate adjustment at the beginning of the year was a significant contributor to both the ARPU increase and the video subscriber loss in the quarter, and we expect video losses in the second quarter will remain elevated.We currently anticipate Cable Communications revenue growth in the second quarter to accelerate by a few hundred basis points from the 5.9% we just reported, partly due to the comparison to last year's second quarter, which was most significantly impacted by COVID-19 as well as our focus on driving growth in our connectivity businesses.Turning to expenses. Cable Communications first quarter expenses increased 1.5%. Programming expenses were up 5.5%, primarily due to the number of contract renewals that started to cycle through in 2020 combined with annual escalators in existing agreements. Looking to the second quarter, we expect programming expense growth to increase at low-double-digit levels due to the continued impact of contract renewals as well as the comparison to last year's second quarter, which was favorably impacted by adjustments accrued for customer RSN fees. For the full year, we continue to expect programming expense to increase at high-single-digit levels.Non-programming expenses declined 1.1% on an absolute basis and 5.9% on a per relationship basis, while our customer relationships grew 5% year-over-year. Non-programming expenses should increase at high-single-digit rate in the second quarter, due in part to the comparison to last year, which reflected the slowdown in business activity due to COVID-19 as well as our continued focus on driving growth in our core broadband and wireless businesses.Cable Communications EBITDA grew by 12% with margins reaching 43.2%, reflecting 250 basis points of year-over-year improvement. These results include the important milestone of our wireless business reaching breakeven for the first time since launch. Cable capital expenditures increased 8%, resulting in capex intensity of 8.7%, up slightly compared to last year and driven by a 23% increase in scalable infrastructure as we continue to invest to enhance the capacity of our network. This spending was partially offset by lower customer premise equipment and support.Now let's turn to Slide 6 for NBCUniversal. As you know, we recently issued an 8-K with updated trending schedules and a new reporting format that reflects the way the business is now managed. We move Peacock, which was previously reported in our corporate results to NBCUniversal. And now we present NBCU in three business segments. Media, which combines our TV businesses in Peacock; Studios, which combines our film and television studio businesses; and Theme Parks. I will discuss today's results in this new format.Let's start with total NBCUniversal results. Revenue decreased 9.1% to $7 billion and EBITDA was down 12% to $1.5 billion. Media revenue increased 3.2% driven by 9.1% growth in distribution revenue, which reflected higher rates post the successful completion of several carriage renewals at the end of 2020, partially offset by subscriber declines, which showed sequential improvement. Advertising revenue declined 3.4% as lower entertainment ratings and tough political comps were partially offset by more sports in the quarter, strengthened news and the launch of Peacock. Media EBITDA declined 3.7% when including Peacock, which generated revenue of $91 million and an EBITDA loss of $277 million. Excluding Peacock, Media EBITDA increased 10%, primarily driven by lower expenses, which was partly due to lower entertainment costs associated with fewer original hours aired and partly due to our new operating model. This year-over-year reduction more than offset higher sports cost resulting from additional events.Looking to the second quarter, we expect healthy growth in distribution revenue to continue. We will have significantly more sporting events compared to last year, which should result in higher advertising revenue, but also a significant increase in sports-related programming and production costs. Studio revenue was flat compared to last year, primarily reflecting higher content licensing revenue, offset by lower theatrical revenue.Content licensing revenue increased 14%, primarily due to licensing deals, including the office, which became exclusively available for streaming on Peacock this past January. Theatrical revenue decreased 88%, reflecting the deferral of theatrical releases due to COVID-19. Significantly fewer releases in the first quarter resulted in lower expenses driving EBITDA growth of 66%. We're excited to be releasing Fast 9 in theaters later in the second quarter, but we delayed the release of Minions 2 from July of this year to July of 2022, which will shift the profits from 2021 to 2022 as well as we're continuing to manage our film fleet to maximize value.Theme Parks revenue decreased 33.1% in the quarter and generated an EBITDA loss of $61 million, which included $100 million of Universal Beijing pre-opening costs. These results reflect Universal Orlando Resort operating at limited capacity, but trends remain encouraging as attendance continues to rebound and we've been at or near capacity limits through spring break. Hollywood remain closed during the quarter, but we recently opened at a 25% capacity limit and expect this to move higher by June 15. In Japan, we recently had to close our park temporarily due to rising COVID cases. But prior this, we had seen strong demand. Looking ahead, we expect our EBITDA results to improve in the back half of the year as domestic attendance trends improve and we remain on track to open our new park, Universal Beijing, this summer.Now let's turn to Slide 7 for Sky, which I will speak to on a constant currency basis. For the first quarter, Sky revenue increased 2% to $5 billion, largely reflecting healthy growth in our U.K. business. Direct-to-consumer revenue increased 1.8% with growth in the U.K. even stronger. This result was driven by higher average rates per customer and strong customer growth across all markets. We generated 221,000 net customer additions, the best first quarter in six years, driven by streaming across our markets as well as steady momentum in mobile and broadband within the U.K.Advertising revenue increased 3.4% as we continue to outperform the market, particularly in the U.K., where the ad market is rebounding more quickly than we expected and we are driving growth through advanced advertising. Sky generated $364 million in EBITDA in the first quarter. As expected, this reflects elevated expenses, including higher sports rights amortization, resulting from more events in the current quarter as well as higher expenses associated with successfully growing our mobile and broadband businesses and investment in key growth initiatives, which now includes Sky Connect, our recently launched commercial broadband business in the U.K.For the second quarter, we expect revenue growth to accelerate to low-double-digit levels on a constant currency basis due to the comparison to last year's second quarter, which was the most impacted by COVID-19 as well as continued strength in our U.K. business. We also anticipate significantly higher sports rights amortization compared to last year when events were paused. As a result, we expect to generate a similar level of EBITDA in the second quarter as we did in the first quarter.We were recently outbid for some of the broadcast rights for Syria and Italy as we stood firm in our disciplined approach to sports-related costs. We believe this was the right long-term financial decision, but we expect a reduction in programming and production expenses and a potential decline in customer relationships in Italy as a result. We continue to expect Sky EBITDA in the second half of this year to accelerate from first half levels, reflecting the benefits of a reset to major sports rights as well as a more efficient operating structure.I'll wrap up with free cash flow and capital allocation on Slide 8. Free cash flow was $5.3 billion in the quarter, an increase of roughly 60% year-over-year, primarily due to an improvement in net working capital and higher EBITDA. Net working capital will continue to fluctuate on a quarterly basis, and we still expect the full year drag increase relative to 2019 due to an increase in content investments, our broadcast of the Olympics and the reversal of COVID-related one-time tax deferrals.Consolidated total capital, which includes capital expenditures as well as software and intangibles, decreased 1.1% in the first quarter to $2.5 billion, reflecting a decline at NBCU, which was partially offset by increases at Sky and Cable. We ended the first quarter with $104 billion of debt with a weighted average cost of 3.6% and a weighted average life of 14.5 years and net debt of $86 billion for a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.7 times. Throughout the pandemic, we have maintained an elevated cash balance to fortify our liquidity position and we ended the first quarter with $15 billion of cash and cash equivalents. We expect to gradually reduce our cash position by deploying excess cash toward debt reduction throughout the remainder of the year as our business operations continue to recover.Finally, we remain committed to our long-standing balanced approach to capital allocation, which consists of maintaining a strong balance sheet, investing organically for profitable growth and returning capital to shareholders with a strong commitment to our recurring dividends and our expected return to share repurchases in the second half of this year.Thanks for joining us on the call this morning. I'll turn it back to Marci, who will lead the question and answer portion of the call.Marci Ryvicker -- Senior Vice President, Investor RelationsThanks, Mike. Regina, let's open the call for questions, please.