
OperatorGood morning everyone and welcome to the Citizens Financial Group Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Alan and I'll be your operator today. Currently all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a brief question-and-answer session. As a reminder, this event is being recorded.Now I'll turn the call over to Kristin Silberberg, Executive Vice President, Investor Relations. Kristin, you may begin.Kristin Silberberg -- Investor RelationsThank you, Alan. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us. First, this morning, our Chairman and CEO, Bruce Van Saun and CFO, John Woods will provide an overview of third quarter results, referencing our presentation, which you can find on our Investor Relations website. After the presentation, we'll be happy to take questions. Don Mccree, Head of Commercial Banking, and Brendan Coughlin, Head of Consumer Banking are also here to provide additional color.Our comments today will include forward-looking statements, which is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause our results to differ materially from expectations. These are outlined for your review on Page 2 of the presentation. We also reference non-GAAP financial measures. So it's important to review our GAAP results on Page 3 of the presentation and the reconciliation in the appendix.And with that, I will hand over to Bruce.Bruce Van Saun -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Kristin. Good morning everyone, thanks for joining our call today.We had a successful and busy third quarter featuring continued strong execution of our strategic initiatives, good financial performance with positive operating leverage and 7% sequential PPNR growth, and the announcement of three acquisitions. We are playing offense and we feel that we are taking the steps to position us for solid growth in franchise value in earnings and in returns. Our financial performance in Q3 reflects strong revenue growth of 3% sequentially as both net interest income and fees grew nicely. NII benefited from a pickup in spot loan growth with retail up 3% and commercial up 1% excluding PPP impact from loan forgiveness. The gradual improvement in loan volumes we have expected is materializing, though held back a modest amount in Q3 by impacts from the Delta variant on the recovery as well as by supply chain issues and labor shortages. These impacts should continue to abate going forward and we expect even faster loan growth in Q4. Interestingly, the amount of PPP forgiveness is roughly equivalent in the first and second halves of 2021, so Q3 saw a meaningful pull forward, which benefits Q3 at the expense of Q4. Nonetheless, the faster loan growth we expect in Q4 should largely offset the lower PPP impact on Q4 net interest income.Strong sequential fee growth once again demonstrated the diversity of our business model. Mortgage had a bounce back quarter, which helped offset some seasonality in capital market fees, while wealth hit a new record and consumer fees continued their recovery toward pre-pandemic levels. We expect this diversification to play out again in Q4 with capital markets poised for a strong quarter given exceptional pipelines and mortgage set for a seasonally softer quarter. We kept expenses under control given our efficiency initiatives, which led to positive sequential operating leverage of around 2.5%. And credit continues to be in great shape, with NCOs of 14 basis points in the quarter, well below our guidance range for the quarter of 20 basis points to 25 basis points. These strong results across expenses and credit should continue into Q4.The strategic initiatives we're focused on across consumer and commercial continue to go well and there is more on that in the presentation. We feel we are focused on prioritizing the areas where we can differentiate ourselves and where we have a right to win. The acquisitions we've announced year-to-date are all attractive from a strategic and financial standpoint and present only modest execution risk. The investors of HSBC transactions give us a top 10 deposit market share in New York City Metro and over 1 million new customers who collectively we feel we can do more for. We also gained a big augmentation to our digital bank customer base from HSBC's online bank and we gained a thin branch network in Washington DC and Miami. Our integration efforts so far are progressing nicely. Our JMP acquisition is also strategically compelling. Upon closing the deal in mid-Q4, we'll have a much broader and deeper corporate finance coverage in technology, healthcare and financial services, plus we gain in equities business that is very well-run, focused and highly regarded.As non-bank lenders continue to take lending market share from banks and private equity ownership of companies continues to increase, it's important that we broaden our capabilities to be able to compete successfully in this new landscape. We will increasingly generate more fee revenue across our customer base given these expanded capabilities. Also worth noting is that the Willamette transaction dramatically expands our valuation services business with a prestigious outfit. This capability is highly synergistic with our M&A and broader capital markets effort.So to sum up, we're taking serious strides forward as an organization in 2021 and we feel very good about our positioning and our future outlook. With that, I'll turn it over to John.John F. Woods -- Vice Chairman and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Bruce, and good morning everyone.First, I'll start with the headlines for the quarter. We reported underlying net income of $546 million and EPS of $1.22. Our underlying ROTCE for the quarter was 14.2%, which includes the impact of a modest credit provision benefit. Revenue of $1.7 billion was up 3% linked quarter given growth in both fee income and net interest income. Period end loans were up 1% in the quarter with strong originations in retail and commercial. Loans were up 2% excluding PPP forgiveness giving us good momentum heading into the fourth quarter. Fee highlights include strong results in capital markets, notwithstanding seasonality another strong quarter for wealth and a rebound in mortgage fees and we delivered positive sequential operating leverage of over 2% this quarter with well controlled expenses. We recorded a credit provision benefit of $33 million, which reflects strong credit performance with lower charge-offs. Our ACL ratio is now at 1.65% excluding PPP loans. We are in a very strong capital position with CET1 at 10.3%, after returning $157 million to shareholders in dividends during the quarter. And finally, we continue to grow our tangible book value per share, which was $34.44 at quarter end, up 7% compared with a year ago.Next, I'll provide some key takeaways for the third quarter while referring to the presentation slides. Net interest income on Slide 6 was up 2% linked quarter, given interest earning asset growth, stable net interest margin and higher day count. The net interest margin was 2.72%, flat sequentially as the benefit of accelerated PPP forgiveness and improved funding costs were offset by the impact of higher cash balances as well as lower earning asset yields given low rates. One highlight is our continued progress on lowering interest bearing deposit costs, which were down 2 basis points to 14 basis points. Our asset sensitivity decreased to about 9.8% from 10.7% at the end of the second quarter. The decrease primarily reflects loan and deposit mix changes and the addition of $2.5 billion in received-fixed swaps in the quarter. We saw good entry points for the swaps given some steepening in yield curve. So far in the fourth quarter, we have added another $1.25 billion. The hedging actions we've executed to date in 2021 are one of the levers we are pulling to address headwinds for swap run-off and other impacts of the low rate environment. We expect to continue adding to the received-fixed swaps portfolio and further moderate our asset sensitivity as the curve steepens, while maintaining meaningful upside benefit to higher short-term rates.Referring to Slide 7, we delivered solid fee results this quarter, demonstrating the strength and diversity of our fee income with strong results in capital markets and wealth. Mortgage fees rebounded in the quarter, up $23 million as production fees benefited from lower agency fees and we saw improvement in MSR hedge results. Diving further into this performance, production revenue was up $12 million linked quarter, benefiting from a modest improvement in gain on sale margins across channels given improved agency pricing and favorable execution. This was partially offset by a decline in adjusted lock volumes, down sequentially about 10% which is broadly in line with industry level trends. As expected we continue to see a shift toward purchase originations, which increased from about 48% in total -- of the total in second quarter to about 54% in the third quarter. The contribution from servicing operations decreased $4 million linked quarter, reflecting higher MSR amortization. Our third party servicing book grew to $87 billion, up 3% linked quarter and 8% year over year.Lastly, our MSR hedging results improved $15 million linked quarter given an unusually large negative results in Q2. Capital markets were down a bit from record levels, reflecting seasonality, particularly in syndication fees. However, M&A advisory fees were higher, and our pipeline heading into the fourth quarter is exceptionally strong. Wealth fees were up slightly continuing to build on record levels, reflecting an increase in assets under management from net inflows. Moving onto other positive fee contributors, we saw improvements in service charges and fees and card fees, which benefited from the strengthening economy as debit transactions and credit card spend continue to exceed pre-pandemic levels.On Slide 8, expenses were well-controlled, up 1% linked quarter as good expense discipline and the benefit of efficiency initiatives largely offset higher operational and travel costs.Period-end loans on Slide 9 were up 1% linked quarter or 2% excluding PPP. Retail loans were growing up 3% and commercial loans were up 1% excluding PPP in a tough operating environment. Average loans were down 1%, but still up 1% excluding PPP. Diving into drivers a bit more; the diversity of our retail lending business produced another quarter of record origination. So we continue to see high payoffs. Strength was noteworthy in mortgage, auto and education. Commercial is seeing strong underlying activity with spot loans up 1% in the quarter excluding PPP. We had a very robust origination quarter led by commercial real estate, asset-backed lending and subscription line financing supporting deal related -- with deal-related activity. This was largely offset by continued elevated payoff activity, which in part reflects favorable conditions for commercial companies to access the debt capital markets.Line utilization levels were up around 50 basis points, still near historic lows. We foresee a gradual recovery in coming quarters as some of the issues holding back investments such as supply chain challenges and labor shortages resolve themselves. In addition, our period end commitments are up around 2%, which will benefit us down the road once investment picks up. Overall spot loan growth of 2% for the quarter ex-PPP provides good underlying momentum for loan growth in the fourth quarter.On Slide 10, deposit flows continue to be robust especially in low-cost categories and our liquidity ratios remained strong. Average deposits were up 1% linked quarter and 7% year-over-year with strong demand in demand deposits, which now make up 32% of total deposits. Interest-bearing deposits were broadly stable as the decline in term deposits was offset by growth in demand deposits and low cost categories. We continued to make good progress on deposit repricing with total deposit costs down 2 basis points to 9 basis points. Interest-bearing deposit costs were down 2 basis points to 14 basis points during the quarter with opportunity to reduce further.Moving onto credit on Slide 11 and 12, we saw excellent credit results this quarter. Net charge-offs dropped from 25 basis points to 14 basis points for the third quarter, driven by improvements across the portfolio. Non-accrual loans decreased 4% linked quarter. Given the improving outlook and strong performance of the portfolio, our reserves decreased ending the quarter at 1.65% ex-PPP compared with 1.7% at the end of the second quarter.Moving to Slide 13, we maintained excellent balance sheet strength. Our CET1 ratio remained stable at 10.3% at the end of the third quarter, after returning $167 million in capital to shareholders through dividends in the quarter. And this is at the top of our list of capital priorities on the slide. We paused our stock repurchase program pending the investor shareholder vote scheduled for November 19. After the vote, we have the opportunity to resume repurchases with $655 million of capacity remaining under our current Board authorization. The estimated CET1 impacts of our pending acquisitions are on the slide, along with the targeted closing timing.Before I move on to our 4Q outlook, let me highlight some exciting things that are happening across the company on Slide 14. Our TOP6 program is in its final stages. Everything is on track and we will achieve our targeted results. We are preparing for the launch of a TOP7 program with more details to follow later this year. These TOP programs have been critical in the funding of our strategic initiatives and in driving positive operating leverage, which are key to achieving our medium-term financial targets. On the ESG front, I'm very excited to say that we've launched a new Green Deposits program to allow corporate clients to direct their cash reserves toward companies and projects that are expected to generate a positive environmental impact by improving energy efficiency, promoting sustainability and reducing greenhouse gases. An area of high focus for us has been moving more rapidly to digital channels, which we accelerated given the behavioral changes we've seen coming out of the pandemic.You can see some of the year-over-year stats on Slide 15. Digital booked sales, for example, are up 24%. Mobile active users are up 20%, and the number of Zelle transactions were up 34%. We continue to enhance our digital capabilities, and by the end of this year, consumers will be able to perform about three quarters of all transactions directly through the mobile app. And by the end of 2022, this will include nearly all transactions. This provides us with strong leverage to continue repositioning our branches toward an advice-based model.Moving to Slide 16, as part of our ongoing efforts to help customers better navigate their financial lives, we recently announced several initiatives designed to make banking more transparent and accessible, including a new way to avoid overdraft fees and a commitment to helping ensure that under-served communities have access to banking services. We introduced Citizens Peace of Mind, a new deposit feature providing customers with the ability to avoid the unnecessary overdraft fees. This feature will come with new capabilities to monitor and alert customers of overdraft withdrawals and a grace period to fund their account. The financial impact of our overdraft policy fees will be to forgo the return to historical overdraft fee levels. You can expect 2022 service charges and fees to stabilize around 2021 year-to-date annualized levels. The benefits of these changes are shown on the right side of Slide 16. We expect higher satisfaction, lower attrition and lower operational costs to offset the foregone overdraft revenues over time. Lastly, we also announced a new commitment to serving underbanked communities, including the introduction of a new checking account with no overdraft fees and features that will meet the bank on national account standards. These are designed to ensure that everyone has access to a transparent, easy-to-use and affordable transactional account.And now for some high level commentary on the outlook on Slide 17. We expect NII to be broadly stable to down slightly, giving a lower benefit from PPP forgiveness due to the pull forward into the third quarter. NII is expected to be up around 2% in the fourth quarter ex-PPP impacts. Most importantly, we are well-positioned to see overall loan growth accelerate in the fourth quarter with average loans up 1.5% to 2% or 2.5% to 3% ex-PPP. And spot loan growth up around 3% or around 4% ex-PPP. We expect continued strength in retail across mortgage, education and auto. And in commercial we expect to see growth led by subscription line financing, supporting deal related activity and asset-backed lending. This loan growth positions us well for 2022 and helps offset the impact from PPP run-off. Fee income is expected to be broadly stable as the seasonal decline in mortgage as well as some expected pressure on margins, given excess industry capacity is expected to be offset by some real strength in capital markets given exceptional pipelines. Non-interest expense is expected to be broadly stable in the fourth quarter, benefiting from our efficiency initiatives. And we expect net charge-offs will be broadly stable with the provision expense lower than net charge-offs. I should add that this guidance excludes the impact of the JMP acquisition, which we are targeting to close in the middle of the fourth quarter.To wrap up on Slide 18, this was a strong quarter for Citizens with good momentum heading into the end of the year. With that, I'll hand it back over to Bruce.Bruce Van Saun -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerAll right, thank you, John. Allan, let's open it up to Q&A, please.