  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Snap-on Inc. second-quarter 2021 results conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Sara Verbsky, vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead.Sara Verbsky -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Stephanie, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review Snap-on's second-quarter results, which are detailed in our press release issued earlier this morning. We have on the call today Nick Pinchuk, Snap-on's chief executive officer; and Aldo Pagliari, Snap-on's chief financial officer. Nick will kick off our call this morning with his perspective on our performance. Aldo will then provide a more detailed review of our financial results. After Nick provides some closing thoughts, we'll take your questions. As usual, we have provided slides to supplement our discussion. These slides can be accessed under the Downloads tab in the webcast viewer, as well as on our website, snapon.com, under the Investors section.These slides will be archived on our website along with a transcript of today's call. Any statements made during this call relative to management's expectations, estimates, or beliefs or otherwise state management's or the company's outlook, plans, or projections are forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those made in such statements. Additional information and the factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are contained in our SEC filings. Finally, this presentation includes non-GAAP measures of financial performance, which are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for their GAAP counterparts. Additional information, including a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures, is included in our earnings release and in our conference call slides on Pages 14 and 15. Both can be found on our website. With that said, I'd now like to turn the call over to Nick Pinchuk. Nick? 

 



Nick Pinchuk -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Sara. Good morning, everyone. As usual, I'm going to start the call by covering the highlights of our second quarter. And along the way, I'll give you my perspective on our results, once again, they were encouraging. And our markets, robust and promising, and our continued progress and strength amid the pandemic, the pandemic isn't over, but we believe we're stronger right now than when it all started. Of course, we'll also speak about what it all means. Then Aldo will move into a more detailed review of the financials. We believe that our second quarter, again, demonstrates Snap-on's ability to continue its trajectory of positive results, overcoming a variety of ongoing headwinds, accommodating to the lingering virus environment, meeting the challenges of the day across the business world, and advancing along our runways for growth and for improvement. Our reported sales in the quarter were $1.0814 billion, and they were up versus last year's $357.1 million or 49.3%, including $20.6 million of favorable foreign currency exchange and $19.6 million in acquisition-related sales. The organic sales were up 42.5%, with significant gains in every group, our fourth straight quarter being above pre-pandemic levels, a V-shaped trajectory that defines resilience and flexible capability. The Opco operating income of $217.1 million was up $126 million from last year, which included $4 million of restructuring charges. Opco operating margin was 20.1%, up from the 2020 level of 12.6% or 13.1% as adjusted for restructuring, representing a 700-basis-point as-adjusted improvement.

 



 The financial services operating income of $68.9 million increased 19.6%, higher originations, lower losses, delinquencies below pre-pandemic levels, our finance company passing the greatest stress tests of our time with flying colors. And that result combined with Opco for a consolidated operating margin of 24.5%, up 560 basis points as adjusted. Quarterly EPS was $3.76, up 103.2% from last year. And excluding the 2020 restructuring charges, EPS grew 96.9%, versus the pre-pandemic levels of 2019, the EPS grew 16.8%, clearly tracing an ongoing positive trend. I've said it before, but it appears to be repeating, we believe Snap-on is stronger now than when we enter this great withering, and we believe our second quarter is emphatic evidence of that fact. Compared with 2019, our sales in the past quarter grew $130.1 million or 13.7%, that reflects $23 million of acquisition-related sales, $17.2 million of favorable foreign currency, and $89.9 million and an $89.9 million or 9.3% organic gain. The 2021 Opco operating margin of 20.1% was up 10 basis points from 2019, but that gain was achieved against 70 basis points of unfavorable currency and acquisition impacts, all while absorbing the lingering effects of the virus, it's not gone. So those are the numbers. From a macro market perspective, it's clear that our automotive repair sector remains favorable. The technicians across the map are still at their posts, repairing cars and trucks, keeping the world running. And they are busy. And as expected after the COVID, it appears that people are leaning more toward personal transportation and are holding on to their vehicles longer every year. Auto repair is a strong and resilient market. You can hear it from our franchisees and you can see it in our numbers. As we look forward, we see greater opportunities as vehicle techs encountered even more complex repairs, new technologies, alternative powertrains, greater proliferation of driver assistance electronics, flow music to our ears. And then there's the repair supplies as advantages, RS&I territory, a little more mixed, particularly in Europe, but return to growth in repair garages and dealerships, they're starting to invest, undercar equipment and OEM programs are coming back, and RS&I is taking advantage of that trend with new equipment offerings and advanced database solutions continually improving our software products and our diagnostic releases. Products like Mitchell 1 repair information software and shop management software and electronic parts catalogs and our Dealer-FX shop management technology and our heavy-duty and our intelligence diagnostic units, big databases and getting more powerful and easier to use, helping the shop fix it right the first time efficiently. Repair shop is changing, rising in complexity and RS&I is the products to match. Finally, let's talk about critical industries, where the Snap-on rolls out of the garage, solving test the consequence. This is where the C&I group operates, our most international operations where the customers have endured the longest impact of the virus and have been slower to accommodated recovering it, what I'd call buried rates, segments like oil and gas and aviation so geographies like Southeast Asia and India still down. But despite the variation, we did see growth in critical industries. Improvements in education, the students are coming back. and in power generation and heavy-duty fleet, all combining to offset that continuing turbulence. So overall, I'd describe our C&I markets as healthy and representing a clear opportunity. And coupled with auto repair, we believe our markets are robust now and there's considerable opportunity ahead. And we add opportunity ahead for us as we move along our runways for growth and improvement. And I can't leave this section about robust progress and abundant possibilities, well, speaking on the engine of our advanced, Snap-on value creation, customer connection, and innovation, developing new products and solutions, borne out of insights and observations gathered right in the workplaces. And RCI, guiding the expansion of franchisee-selling capacity with better processes, more effective training, and a new focus on social media. It will all help drive our progress overcoming the[Audio gap]accommodating the virus and enabling us to take full advantage of the opportunities and chart a continuing and positive trend forward, that's the overview. Now let's move to the segments. In the C&I group, sales in the quarter were up 33.8% or $88.6 million versus 2020, including a $71.3 million or 26.3% organic uplift with double-digit progress across all of the divisions. From an earnings perspective, C&I operating income of $55.5 million, including $1.1 million of unfavorable foreign currency represents a rise of $32.6 million compared to 2020, which included a $2 million of restructuring. That all means an as adjusted increase of over 122.9%, and the operating margin was 15.8%. And as-reported increase of 710 basis points, a rise of 630 basis points as adjusted, and an uplift of 120 basis points from the pre-pandemic level in 2019 despite 90 basis points of unfavorable currency. When compared with pre-pandemic 2019 sales were up 4.6%, including a 0.4% organic gain, about flat. Now continuing bright spot for C&I. SNA Europe did deliver yet another quarter of growth, expanding beyond pre-pandemic levels against the wind with the Bahco Ergo Tool Management System leading the way, tailoring products specific to customer needs. Europe is a varied market environment, but SNA Europe is defying economic gravity again, and that positive was joined by contributions from recovering areas and critical industry like heavy-duty power generation. And as I said before, education who's come to the party just now. And from Asia-Pacific geographies like China and Japan, and those gains were balanced by declines in attenuated sectors like the military, aerospace, and natural resources, all still weak. We do remain confident in and committed to extending in critical industries, and we're committed with great new products. Speaking of product in the last quarter, it helped solve challenging tasks across aviation and other critical industries. We launched a new Snap-on 14.4-volt microlithium cordless right angle mini drill with a 6,000 RPM making it ideal for drilling a variety of materials, plastics to aluminum to fiberglass. The unit has a compact 90-degree head, which provides easier access to combined spaces and reduces work of fatigue, it's a big factor. In addition, it also offers a higher quality check that achieves precise drilling with minimum runout, ensuring tight tolerances are met with considerable reliability. To top it all off, our drill also utilizes a double ball bearing supported spindle shaft and spiral bevel gears. Now that's a mouthful. But it all means that the new power tool has a clear superiority and durability. The cordless right-angle mini is a great innovation with an array of advantages and techs are noticing. So that's C&I, a promising quarter, moving down its runways for growth with strong profitability. C&I, OI margins, 15.8%. Now on to the tools group. Sales of $484.1 million, up $160.8 million, including $154 million or 46.7% organic gain. Double-digit growth both in the U.S. and the international operations and the operating margin was 21.4%, up 930 basis points. Compared with pre-virus 2019, sales grew $78.3 million, including $70.7 million or 17.1% organic gain. In this quarter, it's 21.4% operating margin, it was up 380 basis points compared with the pre-virus numbers, coming out of the pandemic stronger indeed. Another power -- I was going to say, powerful, I guess I could say that, but another positive quarter with double-digit expansions across all geographies and all products. We do believe our van network remains quite strong. Just a few weeks ago, I spent time with a dozen franchisees on our -- the dozen franchisees on our U.S. National Franchisee Advisory Council at our Algona, Iowa tool storage plant. and they were pumped and prosperous, excited by their current positions, positive about the other vans and the regions that represent, and very optimistic about the prospects for even more. Beyond the windshield surveys, we see other indications of continuing strength like the business health metrics, they remain quite favorable. Qualitative and quantitative indicators, both very positive. And that positivity was not just internal, it was reinforced by the external view. Snap-on was recognized again this year among the top 50 in the franchise industry by Entrepreneur Magazine. And once again, we scored highest in the tools distribution category, place we've held for quite some time. And now this type of recognition is kind of positivity, reflects the fundamental and contemporary strength of our franchisees and of our overall van business and would have not have been achieved without a continuous stream of unique new products. Hand tools were up in the quarter. And in part of that torque is rising in importance as more mechanical precision becomes necessary to support vehicle automation. And we're riding that wave with great new products like our new ATEC, Micro Torque Wrench with a quick-release head. The quarter-inch drive quick release has a positive locking mechanism to retain the socket solidly and securely in place. And at the same time, it offers a push-button for easy tool disengagement. It holds and it ejects both important under the hood. And it's a time saver. It's quite a time saver in close clearance applications like valve cover removals and spark plug replacements that happen every day in the garage. The tool also offers visual, audible, and vibrational alerts to confirm that the proper torque has been applied, and it has a wide torque range, 12- to 240-pound inches, and the new micro also includes a 15-degree flex head ratchet for better access to fasteners, a 72-tooth quarter-inch drive ratchet, enabling efficient operations in tight areas and a plus or minus 2% accuracy. Our micro tech takes precision fastening to the next level. Tool storage was also strong in the quarter, and part of that success was our KTL-1023-A3 roll cab, a wide 72-inch triple bank tool storage box. It offers three extrawide drawers for longer and larger tools, giving the technician more organizational options. Our patented lock and roll latch mechanism, which prevents drawers from drifting open, and our ISO ride casters providing a smooth ride, smooth rolling, and excellent weight capacity plus. It adds our LED-lighted power top, which spans the full width of the cabinet for better illumination and great eye appeal, and includes 10 offset AC outlets and four USB ports for charging a large array in the techs electronics. The KTL-1023-A3, storage efficiency in a box that captures sharp attention in any shop, sales of the unit? Well, it's a sellout. Our new products are, in fact, making a difference in the tools group. You can't miss it in the numbers. They also and the group also registered its fourth straight quarter above pre-pandemic levels. The tools group unmistakably is moving onward and upward. Now on to the RS&I group. Sales were up 62.7% or $153.6 million versus last year including $135.7 million or 54.1% organic uplift with double-digit growth weighted toward our undercar equipment and our OEM project businesses. But with our diagnostics and information product business is still delivering strong double-digit increases in addition to the weighting toward undercar equipment and OEM projects. From an earnings perspective, RS&I operating income of $86.7 million represents a rise of $36.1 million or 71.3% compared to 2020, which included $1.4 million of restructuring. And the operating margin was 21.8%, an increase of 110 basis points from last year, 60 basis points as adjusted, but against a 180-basis-point impact of unfavorable currency and acquisition effects. When compared with 2019, sales were up 14.2% as reported and organic growth was $29.7 million or 8.4%, with double-digit advances in undercar equipment, OEM projects, diagnostics, and information in North America, all of that being attenuated by a general weakness in Europe. For profitability, the OI margin was 21.8% -- the OI margin of 21.8% was down 360 basis points with a 150-point impact from unfavorable currency and acquisition effects, and with a further drag from the higher sales of undercar equipment and OEM projects both at the lower end of RS&I margins. Having said that, RS&I has great opportunities, and we're fortifying its way forward with more new products. We just introduced our new ZEUS mobile work centers, giving the technicians the ability to use the full capabilities of our top-of-the-line diagnostics information systems, including our exclusive Fast Track intelligent diagnostics from anywhere in the service pay. It is a compact footprint for great mobility, reaching all over the shop. It also incorporates a lockable tool drawer, tool storage cabinet and a large 27-inch touchscreen display. The new ZEUS Workstation offers significant improvements in convenience and security and in visibility, combined with the power of our most sophisticated databases. It's just the ticket for those shops that want to solve the most difficult repair challenges and want to visibly display their advanced capability for all the customers to see as they come in to shop. And the new workstation is making a difference, attracting attention and it's setting new volume levels for this category. So to wrap up RS&I, improving position with repair shop owners and managers, strong growth across all the divisions, recovering areas of undercar equipment and OEM projects, and expanding product lines to lead the way for us. Well, those are the highlights of the quarter. Tools group, strong progress everywhere, unmistakable strength. C&I, recording a positive performance with significant profitability against variations across industry and geographies and RS&I expanding volume in independent repair shops and OEM dealerships, gains in the U.S. overcoming weakness in Europe. Overall, sales increasing for the corporation up nicely, both versus last year at 42.5% up and compared with pre-pandemic levels at 9.3% up, continuing our V-shaped recovery. Opco operating margin, a strong [ 21% ] up again in the face of 70 basis points of unfavorable currency and acquisition effect. EPS $3.76 in the quarter, up for the fourth quarter in a row, up versus last year, up versus last quarter, up versus pre-pandemic levels. It was another encouraging quarter. Now I'll turn the call over to Aldo. Aldo?Aldo Pagliari -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Nick. Our consolidated operating results are summarized on Slide 6. The second quarter of 2021 exhibited solid financial performance, particularly as compared to last year's heavily pandemic impact in the second quarter. Results also compared favorably with the second quarter of 2019, which being a pre-COVID-19 time period may serve to be the more meaningful baseline. Net sales of $1.0814 billion in the quarter increased 49.3% from 2020 levels, reflecting a 42.5% organic sales gain, $19.6 million of acquisition-related sales, and $20.6 million of favorable foreign currency translation. Sequentially, organic sales improved by 4.5% as compared to the first quarter of 2021. Additionally, net sales in the period increased 13.7% from $951.3 million in the second quarter of 2019, including a 9.3% organic gain, $23.0 million of acquisition-related sales, and $17.2 million of favorable foreign currency translation. Consolidated gross margin of 50.2% improved 310 basis points from 47.1% last year, which included 30 basis points from restructuring costs. The gross margin contribution from the higher sales volumes and benefits from the company's RCI initiatives were partially offset by 20 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency effects. Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales of 30.1% improved 440 basis points from 34.5% last year, which included 20 basis points from restructuring costs. The improvement primarily reflects the benefits of higher sales volumes, partially offset by higher stock-based costs and 70 basis points of unfavorable acquisition effects. Operating earnings before financial services of $217.1 million, compared to $91.1 million in 2020, reflecting 138.3% year-over-year improvement. As a percentage of net sales, operating margin before financial services of 20.1% improved 750 basis points from 12.6% last year, which included 50 basis points for restructuring cost. Financial services revenue of $86.9 million in the second quarter of 2021, compared to $84.6 million last year. While operating earnings of $68.9 million increased $11.3 million from 2020 levels, primarily as a result of higher revenue and lower provisions for credit losses. Consolidated operating earnings of $286 million increased 92.3% from $148.7 million last year. As a percentage of revenues, the operating earnings margin of 24.5%, compared to 18.4% in 2020, which included 50 basis points from restructuring costs. Excluding the restructuring costs, operating earnings margin in 2021 increased 560 basis points from last year. Our second-quarter effective income tax rate of 23.3%, compared to 24.1% last year, which included a 20-basis-point increase related to the prior-year quarter's restructuring charges. Net earnings of $208 million or $3.76 per diluted share increased $106.8 million or $1.91 per share from last year's levels, representing a 103.2% increase in diluted earnings per share. As compared to 2020, excluding the restructuring charges of $3.3 million after-tax or $0.06 per diluted share diluted earnings per share increased 96.9%. Relative to the second quarter of 2019, net earnings increased $27.6 million or $0.54 per share, representing a 16.8% increase in diluted earnings per share. Now let's turn to our segment results. Starting with the C&I group on Slide 7. Sales of $350.5 million increased 33.8% from $261.9 million last year, reflecting a 26.3% organic sales gain, $7.7 million of acquisition-related sales and $9.6 million of favorable foreign currency translation. The organic gain reflects higher activity in all of the segment's operations and includes mid-teen increases in sales to customers in critical industries. Within Critical Industries, robust sales gains were achieved in general industry, heavy-duty and technical education but were partially offset by year-over-year declines in sales to the military, which had remained strong in the pandemic-impacted period last year. As a further comparison, net sales in the period increased 4.6% from 2019 levels, reflecting $1.4 million of organic sales gain, $7.7 million of acquisition-related sales, and $6.4 million of favorable foreign currency translation. As compared to 2019, sales in our European-based hand tools business were up high single digits. With respect to critical industry sales activity in that period, our military, international aerospace and natural resources segments were below 2019 levels. All other critical industry segments are at or above the second quarter of 2019. Gross margin of 39.5% improved 510 basis points from 34.4% in the second quarter of 2020, which included 80 basis points from restructuring charges. Contributions from the higher sales volumes and the improvements resulting from the lower restructuring costs were partially offset by 60 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency effects. Operating expenses as a percentage of sales of 23.7% improved 200 basis points compared to last year, primarily as a result of the improved volumes. Operating earnings for the C&I segment of $55.5 million, including $1.1 million of unfavorable foreign currency effects, compared to $22.9 million last year. The operating margin of 15.8%, compared to 8.7% a year ago. Turning now to Slide 8. Sales in the Snap-on tools group of $484.1 million increased 49.7% from $323.3 million in 2020, reflecting a 46.7% organic sales gain and $6.7 million of favorable foreign currency translation. The organic sales increase reflects a gain of approximately 40% in our U.S. business and a gain of approximately 80% in our international operations with strong growth across all product lines. Net sales in the period increased 19.3% from $405.8 million in the second quarter of 2019, reflecting a 17.1% organic sales gain and $7.6 million of favorable foreign currency translation. Additionally, sales in the U.S. operation were up 18.8% in that period, while franchisee sales off the van versus 2019 were up 21%. Gross margin of 46.8% in the quarter improved 510 basis points from last year, primarily due to the higher sales volumes, benefits from RCI initiatives and 50 basis points from favorable foreign currency effects. Operating expenses as a percentage of sales of 25.4% improved from 29.8% last year primarily due to the higher sales volumes. Operating earnings for the Snap-on tools group of $103.5 million, compared to $38.4 million last year. The operating margin of 21.4%, compared to 11.9% a year ago, an improvement of 950 basis points. Turning to the RS&I group shown on Slide 9. Sales of $398.6 million, compared to $245 million a year ago, reflecting a 54.1% organic sales gain, $11.9 million of acquisition-related sales, and $6 million of favorable foreign currency translation. The organic increase reflects a rise of approximately 80% in sales of undercar equipment, as well as a gain of approximately 50% in sales to OEM dealerships and an increase of approximately 30% in sales of diagnostics and repair information products to independent repair shop owners and managers. As compared to 2019 levels, net sales increased $49.7 million from $348.9 million, reflecting an 8.4% organic sales gain, $15.3 million of acquisition-related sales, and $4.7 million of favorable foreign currency translation. Gross margin of 44.7% declined from 47.4% last year, primarily due to the impact of higher sales and lower gross margin businesses and 40 basis points of unfavorable foreign currency effects partially offset by 70 basis points of benefits from acquisition. As a reminder, undercar equipment, as well as facilitation program-related activity, both of which had healthy sales increases in the quarter, typically have a gross margin rate that is below the RS&I segment average. Operating expenses as a percentage of sales of 22.9% improved 380 basis points from 26.7% last year, which included 50 basis points of restructuring costs. Contributions from the higher sales volumes and benefits from lower costs related to restructuring were partially offset by 190 basis points of unfavorable acquisition effects. Operating earnings for the RS&I group of $86.7 million, compared to $50.6 million last year. The operating margin of 21.8%, compared to 20.7% a year ago. Now turning to Slide 10. Revenue from financial services of $86.9 million, compared to $84.6 million last year. Financial services operating earnings of $68.9 million compared to $57.6 million in 2020. Financial services expenses of $18 million decreased $9 million from 2020 levels, primarily due to lower provisions for credit losses, resulting from $2.8 million of lower year-over-year net loan charge-offs, as well as favorable loan portfolio trends, which support lower expected reserve requirements. As a percentage of the average portfolio, financial services expenses were 0.8% and 1.3% in the second quarters of 2021 and 2020, respectively. In the second quarter, the average yield on finance receivables of 17.5% in 2021, compared to 17.6% in 2020. The respective average yield on contract receivables was 8.5% and 8.2%. The lower yield on contract receivables in 2020 includes the impact of lower interest business operation support loans for our franchisees. These loans were offered during the second quarter of 2020 to help accommodate franchisee operations and dealing with the COVID-19 environment. As of the end of the current quarter, approximately $8 million of these business operation support loans remain outstanding. Total loan originations of $285.8 million in the second quarter increased $30 million or 11.7% from 2020 levels, reflecting a 17.9% increase in originations of finance receivables, while originations of contract receivables were down 11.5%. Last year's contract receivable originations included the aforementioned offering of business operation support loans to qualifying franchisees during the second quarter of 2020. Moving to Slide 11. Our quarter-end balance sheet includes approximately $2.2 billion of gross financing receivables, including $1.9 billion from our U.S. operation. Our worldwide gross financial services portfolio increased $13.2 million in the second quarter, primarily due to the higher originations. The 60-day plus delinquency rate of 1.2% for the United States extended credit is up 20 basis points from the rate of 1% in the second quarter of 2020. As we commented during our second-quarter 2020 earnings call, we estimated in the quarter, the 60-day plus delinquency rate was favorably affected by 20 to 30 basis points as a result of forbearance and deferred payment programs in place during that period last year. As it relates to extended credit or finance receivables, trailing 12-month net losses of $41.6 million, representing 2.4% of outstandings at quarter end, is down 15 basis points sequentially and down 53 basis points compared to the same period last year. Now turning to Slide 12. Cash provided by operating activities of $238.2 million in the quarter decreased $15.4 million from comparable 2020 levels, primarily reflecting the higher net earnings more than offset by net changes in operating assets and liabilities, including $98.4 million of higher income tax payments. The increase in cash paid for income taxes reflects both higher levels of taxable profitability as well as the IRS no longer allowing companies to defer estimated tax payments as compared to the IRS accommodation offered during the second quarter of 2020. Net cash used by investing activities in the $29.7 million included net additions of finance receivables of $18.7 million. Net cash used by financing activities of $147.9 million included cash dividends of $66.7 million and the repurchase of 566,900 shares of common stock for $137.4 million under our existing share repurchase programs, partially offset by proceeds from stock purchase and option plans of $61.8 million. As of quarter end, we had remaining availability to repurchase up to an additional $251.6 million of common stock under existing authorizations. Turning to Slide 13. Trade and other accounts receivable increased $4.7 million from 2020 year end. Days sales outstanding of 56 days compared to 64 days at 2020 year end. Inventories increased $14.4 million from 2020 year-end, but on a trailing 12-month basis, inventory turns of 2.7, compared to 2.4 at year-end 2020. Our quarter-end cash position of $965.9 million, compared to $923.4 million at year-end 2020. Our net debt-to-capital ratio of 10.8%, compared to 12.1% at year-end 2020. In addition to cash and expected cash flow from operations, we have more than $800 million in available credit facilities. At quarter end, there were no amounts outstanding under the credit facility, and there are no commercial paper borrowings outstanding. That concludes my remarks on our second-quarter performance. I'll now briefly review a few outlook items for 2021. We anticipate that capital expenditures will be in the range of $90 million to $100 million. We currently anticipate absent any changes to U.S. tax legislation that our full-year 2021 effective income tax rate will be in a range of 23% to 24%. I'll now turn the call back to Nick for his closing thoughts. Nick?Nick Pinchuk -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Aldo. Well, at the beginning, I said I would speak on what this all means. I'm going to try. First, it means that Snap-on and its markets are resilient. The virus is probably the greatest threat to our society and business, and in many decades, it was a great shock. Miles driven down big dealerships, many furloughed no travelers -- aviation, no travelers, oil and gas and free fall and education, virtually little need for equipment. Nobody is in the classrooms. And yet, we weathered the shock without trauma. The credit company stepped in with just the right bridging at just the right places for customers and franchisees and our direct selling vans kept rolling quickly accommodating to the environment. Snap-on kept investing in our products, our brands, and our people, and we accommodated and recovered to post four straight quarters of above pre-pandemic results. Tracing a V-shaped recovery and emerging from the height of the storm stronger than we entered, resilience against the greatest business threat in memory, but it's more than resilience. More than bounce back. It also demonstrates great flexibility. As the world passed through the shock through accommodation to psychological recovery, change was the order of the day Snap-on adjusted, fueled by our fortified advantages and product brand and people we accommodated. The pandemic limited face-to-face interaction. We expanded virtual contact and came away with some long-term social media tools that will enable our franchisees for some time. When technicians focused on shorter payback items, we gave them hand tools and power tools in torque. When repair leaned away from maintenance to complex repairs in the shock, we provided ADAS calibration, tools, and intelligent diagnostics and help franchisees expand their selling capacity to manage those more complicated offerings efficiently. When some critical industries weakened, we developed offerings for those that were maintained. When the virus attenuated the distributors in Europe, we focused on customization and more direct interactions, all of that achievement in the time of change demonstrates Snap-on's flexibility and confirms we can prosper mid-future change going forward, as we've always done by observing work and solving whatever the new problems are. Snap-on second quarter, tools group, up in all geographies and in all product lines, sales up 17.1%, compared with 2019 and OI margins of 21.4%. C&I gains offsetting the challenges of the lingering COVID, rising profitability to 15.8%, up 120 basis points from the pre-pandemic level, even with a 90-basis-point impact from unfavorable currency. RS&I, sales up 8.5% versus 2019. undercar equipment and OEM projects recovering in an OI of 21.8%, down from the pre-pandemic but still strong, and Snap-on overall, sales up 9.3% organically versus 2019, an OI margin of 20.1% and an EPS of $3.76, up meaningfully versus every comparison. It was an encouraging period again, demonstrating resilience and flexibility, encouraging for the now and we're confident encouraging for the prospects of growth and improvement for the future on through 2021 and well beyond. Before I turn the call over to the operator, I'll speak directly to our franchisees and associates. Your support is the fundamental element in driving our continuing positive trend for your role in helping our society and our company to navigate the pandemic, you have my admiration. For your contributions and authoring this quarter's strong results, you have my congratulations. And for your continued commitment to the Snap-on team, you have my thanks. Now I'll turn the call over to the operator. Operator? 