  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Akamai Technologies first-quarter 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference may be recorded. [Operator instructions] I'd now like to hand the conference over to your host today, Mr. Tom Barth, head of investor relations.Tom Barth -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining Akamai's first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Speaking today will be Tom Leighton, Akamai's chief executive officer; and Ed McGowan, Akamai's chief financial officer. Before we get started, please note that today's comments include forward-looking statements, including statements regarding revenue and earnings guidance. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. The factors include uncertainty stemming from COVID-19 pandemic and any impact from unexpected geopolitical developments. Additional information concerning these factors is contained in Akamai's filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this call represent the company's view on May 4, 2021.Akamai disclaims any obligation to update these statements to reflect future events or circumstances. As a reminder, we will be referring to some non-GAAP financial metrics during today's call. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP metrics can be found under the financial portion of the Investor Relations section of akamai.com. And with that, let me turn the call over to Tom. Tom Leighton -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Tom, and thank you all for joining us today. I'm pleased to report that Akamai delivered excellent results in the first quarter. Q1 revenue was $843 million, up 10% year over year and up 8% in constant currency. This strong result was driven by the continued rapid growth of our security business, accelerated growth in our edge applications business, and continued high-traffic levels on our intelligent edge platform. Non-GAAP operating margin in Q1 was 31% and Q1 non-GAAP EPS was $1.38 per diluted share, up 15% year over year and up 11% in constant currency. With a strong start to 2021, we're proud that Akamai has continued to enable and to protect remote work, homeschooling, e-commerce, and online entertainment for billions of people around the world amid very challenging circumstances. Our security solutions portfolio performed especially well in Q1, generating revenue of $310 million, up 29% year over year and up 27% in constant currency. The very strong growth was experienced across most of our security products, including our new Page Integrity Manager solution. Page Integrity Manager helps enterprises defend against malware and third-party software and applications. Customers that adopted Page Integrity Manager in Q1 included Maersk, the world's largest container shipping operator; and Groupon, the global e-commerce marketplace. Maersk uses more than 4,000 scripts, half of which are third-party scripts to drive millions of dollars of online business every hour. Managing this complex and dynamic environment had become an increasingly difficult security challenge for Maersk and so they now use Page Integrity Manager to improve visibility into security threats and to prevent the loss of critical data. Our Bot Manager solution also continued to perform very well in Q1. Bot Manager is designed to mitigate a wide variety of automated attacks, including account stuffing attacks where credentials stolen from one website are checked for validity at thousands of other websites. When valid credentials are found, a manual attack is then often used to extract value from the compromised accounts. Losses from account takeovers and new account fraud are estimated at over $10 billion annually in the U.S.

 



 In order to forge such manual attacks, we launched the beta for our new account protector solution in Q1. Account protector shields organizations from account takeover and other kinds of fraudulent human activity without increasing friction for legitimate customers. Account protector works by detecting in real-time whether a user logging into an application is the legitimate account owner or an impostor in possession of stolen credentials. One of our beta customers for this new solution is a well-known restaurant franchise. It was under attacked by cybercriminals who were compromising the loyalty accounts of their diners. The criminals were stealing loyalty reward points and then reselling them on the dark web. The digital theft outraged the diners whose points were stolen and angered restaurant owners who unknowingly provided meals to fraudsters. With help from Akamai, the franchise can now identify the situations where humans are impersonating valid diners and take action to stop the illicit transfer of loyalty points, thereby stopping the fraud and enabling the franchise to focus on accelerating sales. We're also excited about the success of Akamai's fastest-growing security segment, Access Control, which reached an annualized revenue run rate of $100 million in Q1, up more than 170% over Q1 of 2020 and up over 60% organically. Our Access Control segment provides secure connectivity for users, applications, workloads, and IoT systems, regardless of their location. Products in this area include Enterprise Application Access, Enterprise Threat Protector, and our new secure mobile and secure IoT solutions that we acquired from Asavie in October. Our secure mobile and secure IoT products provide security, visibility, and control for mobile devices at the edge. These services deter malicious activity and support acceptable use policies without needing to install a client on the device. The solutions are sold to our carrier partners such as AT&T, where it forms the basis for their AccessMyLAN solution. These capabilities have been especially important in helping school districts secure student devices during the pandemic so that students can learn from home safely. Our security solutions also continued to gain recognition from the leading analyst firms in Q1. Our market-leading web application firewall capabilities earned Gartner Peer Insights Customers' Choice distinction. And Forrester named Akamai as a leader in DDoS protection for the third time, saying large enterprise clients that want an experienced trusted vendor to make their DDoS problem go away should look to Akamai. Turning to our CDN portfolio. Q1 marked another quarter of very strong traffic growth for Akamai, led by OTT video services and downloads of e-gaming software. On March 16, traffic on the Akamai platform reached an all-time high of 200 terabits per second. This is 19% higher than the peak in Q1 of last year and 2.5 times the traffic peak in Q1 of 2019. Daily peaks were also high in Q1, averaging 143 terabits per second. In fact, traffic on our platform exceeded 110 terabits per second, pretty much around the clock in Q1. Overall, our CDN products and services generated revenue of $532 million in Q1, up 2% year over year and flat in constant currency. The Edge Application segment generated $45 million in revenue last quarter, up more than 30% over Q1 of 2020. As you may recall from the discussion at our Investor Summit in February, this revenue amount includes edge computing solutions, such as EdgeWorkers, that we build discreetly, but does not include the wide array of services that use our computing capabilities at the edge. As we discussed during our recent Investor Summit, we believe that there is the potential for substantial future growth in the area of edge computing, as we anticipate more enterprises moving their compute workloads to our edge platform for offload, improved performance, security, and global scale. A timely example of such a shift is manifested in our new Vaccine Edge solution, which is enabling over two dozen public health agencies and pharmacy chains around the world to deliver and secure COVID vaccine registration sites in the face of extraordinary flash crowds. In multiple instances, Akamai was called in to rescue government agencies whose websites had crashed under load, resulting in frustrated citizens who waited for long times before getting kicked out without a reservation. In some cases, these websites have been using solutions provided by competitors that were not able to handle the load. We're pleased to partner on Vaccine Edge with salesforce.com, and we're proud that our EdgeWorkers solution has made a real difference to the many millions of citizens trying to get the vaccine as quickly as possible. Our customers are now using EdgeWorkers for a wide range of applications. For example, a leading theme park operator is using EdgeWorkers to help manage demand as they plan to reopen parks. A publicly traded sports and entertainment company has implemented geofencing using our EdgeKV data store, together with EdgeWorkers, to ensure that users access only relevant broadcast content for their location. A nationwide home improvement retailer and a global credit card company are using A/B testing logic at the edge to deliver fast and personalized user experiences. We're enabling DevOps workflows for our global sportswear brand by managing canary releases, where only a targeted group of users can see a new experience. And we're enabling a leading global manufacturer of devices to authenticate their users at the edge, which improves performance and reduces their cloud costs. We're also proud of the progress that we're making with our sustainability efforts. In the past year, we doubled our platform capacity with no increase at all in our platform's carbon footprint. And just two weeks ago, on Earth Day, we announced that by 2030, Akamai intends to power 100% of our global operations with renewable energy, improve the energy efficiency of our platform by an additional 50%, mitigate 100% of our platform emissions and continue to recycle 100% of our electronic waste. These goals reflect Akamai's commitment to be a responsible, efficient, and forward-looking company. In summary, we're very excited about the innovative technology that we're developing, the strong demand from customers for our security and edge computing solutions, and our Q1 financial performance on both the top and bottom lines. The growth strategy and goals that we outlined to you in our Investor Summit on February 25, set our direction for the future, and we believe that our strong Q1 results show that we've been executing according to plan. Now, I'll turn the call over to Ed to provide further details on our Q1 results and the outlook for next quarter and 2021. Ed?Ed McGowan -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Tom. Before I provide additional details on our Q1 performance, I'd like to remind everyone that as a result of the reorganization we announced last quarter, we've refocused the company from a vertical-aligned divisional structure to a product-oriented lens. I will therefore be focusing my discussion today on our Security Technology Group and our Edge Technology Group. The Security Group, as you might imagine, encompasses all of our security solution. The Edge Group includes our media delivery and web performance CDN business, along with our edge compute solutions. We plan to provide additional revenue detail for the different product lines within our Security Technology Group and Edge Technology Group on an annual basis. However, we might highlight specific subgroup details from time to time on our quarterly earnings calls if we feel it will help provide greater context on our results. Finally, as I mentioned on our last call, we will continue to report both Web Division and Media and Carrier division results, along with our Internet platform customer results on our website for the balance of 2021 to assist with this reporting transition. So with all that said, as Tom outlined, Akamai delivered another excellent quarter in Q1. We were very pleased to exceed the high end of our guidance range on both revenue and earnings. Q1 revenue was $843 million, up 10% year over year or 8% in constant currency, driven by continued strength across most major product areas in our security business, better-than-expected traffic from OTT video and gaming customers, and very strong performance in our edge applications business. Revenue from our Security Technology Group was $310 million, up 29% year over year or 27% in constant currency, driven by broad-based strength across most of our security products. Revenue from our Edge Technology Group was $532 million, up 2% year over year or flat in constant currency. We benefited from strong traffic growth driven by OTT video and gaming, as well as strong growth in our edge applications business, as Tom mentioned earlier. As expected, foreign exchange fluctuations had a positive impact on revenue of $3 million on a sequential basis and positive $16 million on a year-over-year basis. International revenue was $380 million, up 13% year over year or 8% in constant currency. Sales in our international markets represented 45% of total revenue in Q1, up 1 point from Q1 2020 and consistent with Q4 levels. Finally, revenue from our U.S. market was $463 million, up 8% year over year. Moving now to costs. Cash gross margin was 76%, in line with our expectations. GAAP gross margin, which includes both depreciation and stock-based compensation, was 64%. Non-GAAP cash operating expenses were $267 million, in line with our expectations. Now, moving on to profitability. Adjusted EBITDA was $375 million, up $49 million or 15% from the same period in 2020. Our adjusted EBITDA margin was 45%, up 2 points from Q1 2020. Non-GAAP operating income was $264 million, up $34 million or 15% from the same period last year. Non-GAAP operating margin came in at 31%, up 1 point from Q1 last year and above our guidance range due to leverage from our revenue outperformance. Capital expenditures in Q1, excluding equity compensation and capitalized interest expense, were $150 million, consistent with our guidance range. We continue to expect Q1 capex to represent the high watermark for quarterly capex spending in 2021. GAAP net income for the first quarter was $156 million or $0.94 of earnings per diluted share. Our Q1 GAAP results include a $7 million restructuring charge related to the company realignment we announced last quarter, which was in line with our expectations. Non-GAAP net income was $228 million or $1.38 of earnings per diluted share, up 15% year over year, up 11% in constant currency, and $0.07 above the high end of our guidance range due to our revenue outperformance. Taxes included in our non-GAAP earnings were $38 million, based on a Q1 effective tax rate of approximately 14%. Now, I will discuss some balance sheet items. As of March 31, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaled approximately $2.5 billion. After accounting for the $2.3 billion of combined principal amounts of our two convertible notes, net cash was approximately $154 million as of March 31. Now, I will review our use of capital. During the first quarter, we spent $58 million to repurchase shares, buying back approximately 600,000 shares. We ended Q1 with approximately $514 million remaining on our previously announced share repurchase authorization. Our plan remains to leverage our share buyback program to offset dilution resulting from equity compensation over time. As a result, based on current market conditions, we expect to spend at least $350 million for the full year 2021. Moving on to Q2 guidance. We are projecting Q2 revenue in the range of $839 million to $853 million or up 6% to 7% as reported or 3% to 5% in constant currency over Q2 2020. There are two factors to consider as you think about year-over-year comparisons for Q2. First, in 2020, we saw a significant uptick in traffic on our network starting at the end of March and continuing through the remainder of the year as a result of global lockdowns. As our excellent Q1 results demonstrate, traffic has continued to grow on our network this year, but we don't expect to see the same traffic growth rates from a year ago going forward. This creates more challenging year-over-year comparisons for our edge delivery business starting in Q2 and continuing for the remainder of 2021. Second, the Q2 year-over-year growth comparison also reflects the continuing ban of some Chinese-based apps in India. As a reminder, these apps, which were banned in Q3 of last year, contributed revenue of approximately $15 million in Q2 2020. Foreign exchange fluctuations are expected to have a negative $3 million impact on Q2 revenue compared to Q1 levels and a positive $18 million impact year over year. At these revenue levels, we expect cash gross margins of approximately 76%. Q2 non-GAAP operating expenses are projected to be $261 million to $266 million. We anticipate Q2 EBITDA margins of approximately 45%. Moving now to depreciation. We expect non-GAAP depreciation expense to be between $116 million to $117 million. Factoring in this guidance, we expect non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 31% for Q2. Moving on to capex. We expect to spend approximately $133 million to $138 million, excluding equity compensation in the second quarter. And with the overall revenue and spend configuration I just outlined, we expect Q2 non-GAAP EPS in the range of $1.35 to $1.40. This EPS guidance assumes taxes of $37 million to $39 million based on an estimated quarterly non-GAAP tax rate of approximately $0.14 -- excuse me, 14%. It also reflects a fully diluted share count of approximately 165 million shares. Looking ahead to the full year, we are raising our guidance for both revenue and EPS. We now expect revenue of $3.4 billion to $3.435 billion, which is up 6% to 7% year over year as reported or up 5% to 6% in constant currency. We now expect security growth to be in the low 20s for the full year 2021. We are estimating non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 30% to 31% and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $5.45 to $5.52. And this non-GAAP earnings guidance is based on a non-GAAP effective tax rate of approximately 14% and a fully diluted share count of approximately 164 million shares. Moving on to capex. Full-year capex is expected to be approximately 16% of revenue, unchanged from our prior outlook. We are very pleased to have delivered such strong results in Q1 and to be able to increase our outlook for the full year. Thank you. Tom and I would be happy to take your questions. Operator? 