  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to Lumen Technologies first-quarter earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded today, Wednesday, May 4, 2022. It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mike McCormack, senior vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Mike McCormack -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Franz. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us for the Lumen Technologies first quarter 2022 earnings call. Joining me on the call today are Jeff Storey, president and chief executive officer; Chris Stansbury, executive vice president and chief financial officer; and our senior vice president and treasurer, Rafael Martinez-Chapman. Before we begin, I need to call your attention to our safe harbor statement on Slide 2 of our first quarter 2022 presentation, which notes that this conference call may include forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties.

 



 All forward-looking statements should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statements on Slide 2 and the risk factors in our SEC filings. We will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures reconciled to the most comparable GAAP measures that can be found in our earnings press release. In addition, certain metrics discussed today exclude cost for special items, as detailed in our earnings material, all of which can be found on the Investor Relations section of the Lumen website. With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff.Jeff Storey -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Mike, and good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. I'd like to begin the call today by welcoming Chris Stansbury to the Lumen team as our chief financial officer. Chris joined us from Arrow Electronics and brings over 25 years of finance leadership experience. I'm confident that Chris' skills and knowledge will prove invaluable to our organization as we drive toward profitable revenue growth. Chris joins Lumen in an exciting time for our company and its stakeholders. We continue to anticipate closing two major transactions this year, which will provide a significant improvement in our revenue mix and generate over $7 billion of net cash proceeds. Within our business segment, we see strong momentum in our forward indicators like sales in churn, which provide us confidence in achieving our growth objectives. In addition, our Quantum Fiber build plan is ramping, and we expect momentum to continue to accelerate as we drive toward our expectation of hitting 1 million or so new fiber enablements in 2022.

 



 On today's call, I will provide some thoughts on our first-quarter results as well as the opportunities we see in the year ahead. Chris will discuss the first quarter in more detail, and we'll reserve time after Chris' remarks for your questions. As we mentioned last quarter, our first quarter revenue performance tends to be seasonally weaker compared to the fourth quarter, and this year was no exception. We continued strong performance in security, cloud, unified communications and IT products, offset by anticipated declines in voice and other as well as lower nonrecurring equipment revenue. We are managing through supply chain constraints that have caused some delays in our install intervals and significantly slowed down our CPE sales. Although CPE has little impact on the EBITDA and free cash flow, it has a larger impact on revenue on a year over year and sequential basis. We continue to advance the Lumen platform. Last week, we launched our new Lumen marketplace feature. The marketplace provides our Enterprise customers the ability to self-serve a number of our key products and services. No phone calls, no order tickets. The customer selects the services they need from the marketplace and the system takes it from there. This self-service capability resonates with our customers, improving their experience while also improving our speed of delivery and reducing our cost to deliver services. As we continue to execute on our transformation plan with capabilities like the Lumen marketplace, we believe Lumen is well positioned to drive top line growth in the Enterprise market. We continue to win large enterprise and public sector contracts, driving long-term growth in the consumption-based services like security, application delivery and managed services through our edge capabilities and built-in security across a world-class fiber network. These capabilities are complemented by the increasingly all-digital experience of the Lumen platform and supported by very relevant and capable professional services. While these large complex deals take longer to turn up, they come with tremendous upside as we push more and more applications to the customer edge, leading to profitable and durable revenue for years to come.

 



 Coupling our edge facilities with our dense fiber infrastructure provides machine-to-machine level latency for approximately 97% of the U.S. enterprise locations, allowing customers to implement cloud-based solutions as if all the processing and storage were located within their facilities and increasingly critical capability. We see traction across traditional industry verticals like retail and healthcare, but also opportunities for new use cases of our edge compute infrastructure like we're seeing from leading crypto platforms. With the strong sales environment for large enterprise, we expect revenue trends to improve as we install the solutions called for in these more complex deployments. On the other hand, we remain dissatisfied with the mid-market enterprise performance to expect improvements as these customers return to more normal operations, post-COVID. We have confidence our products and services serve these customers well and can execute better in this channel. As you've heard me say before, our path to growth will not be linear, but we are excited about the market's appetite for our new and existing services. Our Enterprise product expansions and the steady increase in the depth and breadth of our platform will continue to open new addressable markets for Lumen. Within our mass markets group, the team is energized as we move deeper into our accelerated ramp of quantum enablement, increasing our addressable footprint and subscriber opportunity. Quantum Fiber is the growth engine for mass markets, and we're excited to update you on our progress. Our most recent Net Promoter Score, which is above 50, demonstrates the Quantum Fiber delivering a very high-quality product with unmatched symmetric capacity within all-digital experience. We continue to enhance the Quantum experience, including the deployment of our multi-gig fiber capability which will be commercially available to mass market customers later this year. While it's very early in the adoption phase of this type of capacity, we know there is an insatiable appetite for bandwidth. Our fiber expansions and the architectures we're now deploying with our accelerated build factor in multi-gig services from the beginning and position us for growth coming from VR, AR, gaming, work and learn from home and other high-bandwidth services. We expect the Quantum capital investment to be concentrated over the next several years, but we believe the capabilities we are enabling will sustain our Quantum product for years into the future. Chris will share more details about our enablement in a minute, but the short answer is that having accelerated our engineering and preconstruction work processes in the first quarter, we expect our build pace to continue to accelerate throughout the year, putting us on track to achieving our goal of 1 million or so enablements in 2022. As we see it, we are in the first inning of this exciting expansion and are laying the foundation for what we believe is a very large growth opportunity. As with our Enterprise business, we are managing through supply chain constraints within mass markets, but we believe our strong supplier relationships provide support for our build plan. We expect continued strong revenue growth as we ramp enablements and execute on our penetration targets. Quantum delivers a best-in-class service as highlighted by the very positive NPS scores I mentioned, and we are excited to provide this experience to a growing number of mass market locations, both consumer and small business. Beginning this quarter, we are providing the investment community with enhanced mass market disclosures regarding our retained 16-state footprint as well as other important metrics. Overall, we are pleased with our accelerating build pace and look forward to taking meaningful market share as we continue to gain scale. I'd like to provide a quick update on our previously announced transactions. We continue to expect the transaction with Stonepeak to close early in the third quarter, and our confidence is building that we will close as early as July 1. Separation planning is well underway on the Apollo transaction, and we're working closely with various regulatory bodies. We recently received our completeness determination from the Department of Justice. That said, the process has not moved as quickly as we had hoped, resulting in our pushing back the expected close to early in the fourth quarter. This delay has no impact on our confidence in deal closure. In a few minutes, Chris will provide a financial update related to the revised closing. But essentially, we will raise our EBITDA and free cash flow guidance based on a presumed [Inaudible] closing. As you will hear from Chris, we are passing through the effects of the adjusted closing date but are making no other change to the outlook we provided last quarter. As these deals close in the second half of the year, it's very important to us that we are a strong partner to both Stonepeak and Apollo as they drive further success and serve these valued customers. Beyond the financial effects, these transactions allow Lumen to focus on the rightest opportunities for growth. While improving our pro forma revenue mix, these transactions also highlight the value of the Lumen asset portfolio, and we will continue to opportunistically evaluate further portfolio optimization. As always, we'll be disciplined. While there is no urgency for us to divest additional assets, we will pursue transactions that provide clear strategic and economic benefits for Lumen. Our first priority remains achieving profitable revenue growth, and we're actively deploying the assets, personnel and investments across our entire footprint to achieve that goal. Growth is the principal long-term driver of improved shareholder returns, but we believe shareholders should be rewarded as we transform our company to drive that growth and believe returning cash to shareholders in the form of a dividend is a very important part of our overall value proposition. We do continue to expect an elevated dividend payout ratio as we execute on our Quantum build plan but also expect it to normalize over time as growth improves and Quantum investments normalize in the out years of the plan. We remain committed to a healthy balance sheet and expect a meaningful reduction in our outstanding debt as we prudently reutilize over $7 billion of net proceeds from our announced transactions. We continue to believe our market value does not reflect the exciting growth opportunity we are driving toward. And while investing in growth and supporting our dividend are paramount, our Board remains prepared to authorize a share repurchase on short notice, if they believe a buyback provides the best return for our shareholders. I would like to end my remarks by thanking Neel Dev for his finance leadership as CFO over the past three years as well as his contribution to Lumen and its predecessor companies for over the past 18 years. We thank him and wish him continued success in the future. With that, I'll turn the call over to Chris to discuss our first-quarter results in more detail. Chris?Chris Stansbury -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jeff, and good afternoon, everyone. I want to begin by thanking the team here at Lumen for a warm welcome. While it's only been a few weeks since coming on board, I can tell you that the excitement for our goals and initiatives is palpable. I look forward to being a part of the transformation occurring at Lumen and believe I bring a unique perspective as we execute on our plan. I'll begin with the financial summary of our first quarter. We reported adjusted EBITDA, excluding special items, of $1.966 billion and generated a 42% margin. A number of items impacted margins this quarter, which I will discuss in more detail later in my remarks. Our reported revenue was down 7%, meaningfully impacted by the completion of the CAF II program and seasonal factors within our Enterprise business. Our free cash flow was $846 million. We returned $271 million to our shareholders during the quarter through our quarterly dividend. Additionally, we reduced net debt by over $450 million during the first quarter and by approximately $1.5 billion since the same time last year. As we announced on our last earnings call, we are adjusting our mass markets product revenue reporting categories this quarter to fiber broadband, other broadband and voice and other. The two key reasons for these changes are the increasing importance of our Quantum Fiber platform and the completion of the CAF II program. Given this relatively small impact, RDOF support revenue will be included in the voice and other category in our new reporting structure, consistent with other state support payments. We currently expect to begin recognizing RDOF support revenue during the second quarter. But even on a full year basis, RDOF will have a very small impact on our results, particularly after the expected sale of our ILEC assets in the fourth quarter. We've also provided added disclosures for our mass market segment associated with our 16 retained states, which we have referred to as RemainCo in our earnings materials, and those are internal estimates, which may be subject to change. These materials can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website. Our goal is to allow investors and others to begin to model our mass market segment as we near the divestiture of the 20-state ILEC business to Apollo. Given the complexity, we do not intent to provide prior period estimates, but will provide RemainCo estimated quarterly results through the close of the transaction with Apollo. In addition, we're actively working to help investors better understand the drivers of our business segment and hope to provide additional disclosures in future periods. We experienced typical sequential seasonal pressures on revenue in the first quarter with an added headwind from supply chain constraints. With respect to supply chains, we've been managing through the impact well, but this is an ongoing issue that we will continue to manage and watch very closely, and the same can be said for the impacts of inflation. Moving on to revenue performance. On an adjusted basis, revenue was down 2.2% sequentially, similar to the 2% sequential decline we had in the first quarter of last year. On a year-over-year basis, total revenue declined 7% in the first quarter to $4.676 billion. Year-over-year metrics were materially impacted by the end of the CAF II program, which was partially offset by a related onetime CAF II revenue release in the first quarter of 2022. When adjusted for CAF II, foreign currency and the sale of our last remaining correctional facilities business last quarter, the year-over-year rate of decline was 5.5% versus a decline of 5.2% last quarter on the same basis. Within our two key segments, business revenue declined 5.4% to $3.401 billion year over year. When excluding foreign currency headwinds and the sale of our correctional facilities business, revenue declined 4.9% year over year. Mass markets revenue declined 11.1% to $1.275 billion year over year. Adjusting for the CAF II impacts mentioned earlier, mass markets revenue was down 7.2%, in line with the performance in the fourth quarter. This will be the last quarter with the year-over-year negative impact of our Prism TV shutdown which was about a 70-basis point headwind to growth this quarter. Wholesale revenue was down 4.3% year over year similar to last quarter's performance. We continue to manage this business for cash. As you look at our enterprise channels, which is our business segment, excluding wholesale, reported revenue declined 5.8% year over year. When adjusting for the impacts of foreign currency, and the sale of the correctional facilities business, revenue was down 5.1%. Our exposure to legacy voice and other revenue which we also manage for cash has dropped by 340 basis points year over year and now represents less than 21% of enterprise channel revenue. IGAM revenue declined 2.1% year over year. On a constant currency basis, IGAM declined 1.3% year over year versus a 1% year-over-year decline in the fourth quarter on the same basis. We had particular strength in our managed security, cloud services and IP services. Large enterprise revenue declined 8% year-over-year. The sale of the correctional facilities business is reflected in this channel and resulted in an approximate $10 million negative impact year over year. Normalizing for this sale, large enterprise declined 6.9% year over year. We had growth in managed security, cloud services, unified communications and IP services. Overall, large enterprise growth was negatively impacted by equipment in our IT Solutions business, both of which tend to experience quarterly fluctuations. Mid-market enterprise declined 8.2% year-over-year. As Jeff said, we're not yet satisfied with the mid-market results but see the subsiding of COVID as positive for this channel. We had growth in cloud, IT services and IP services as well as wavelengths, offset by lower voice revenue and onetime revenue from CPE sales. As I mentioned earlier, on an adjusted basis, mass markets revenue declined 7.2% year over year. For ease of comparison and footnoted on our slide, we recognized approximately $14 million of our $59 million CAF II benefit this quarter within the 16 retained states. This compares to approximately $53 million and $54 million of CAF II revenue recognized in the retained states in the fourth quarter of 2021 and the first quarter of 2021, respectively. Our mass markets fiber broadband revenue within our RemainCo footprint grew by nearly 18% year over year and in the first quarter represented more than 15% of our total mass market revenue. With the anticipated close of our ILEC sale, our exposure to legacy voice and other services will improve and reduce our annualized voice and other revenue by over $650 million based on our first quarter 2022 results and after adjusting for the CAF II release. During the quarter, we added 27,000 Quantum Fiber customers, roughly in line with last quarter as we pivot to our market-based approach and prepared for our significant shift in the go-to-market strategy. This brings our total quantum subscribers to 830,000 with 762,000 of the subscribers within the 16 retained states. During the quarter, total enablements were approximately 160,000 with approximately 130,000 of those enablements located in our 16 retained states, bringing total enablements in the retained states to $2.67 million as of March 31, with approximately 250,000 additional locations enabled in the business to be sold to Apollo. ARPU in the retained states was approximately $59 million. And we see ARPU expansion opportunities with the adoption of in-home WiFi solutions, security services and multi-gig speeds among others. As you frame our quantum journey, we wanted to share a few important expectations for the positive impact product will have in our future results. We expect that as Quantum ramps, we will achieve overall broadband revenue and subscriber growth within mass markets in the second half of 2023. As of March 31, our penetration of legacy broadband subscribers in our retained 16 states was down to approximately 13%, highlighting the low risk of quantum cannibalization and our significant share-taking opportunity as we accelerate the quantum build. In fact, roughly 90% of our 2021 fiber gross adds were new to Lumen. Within the same footprint, our quantum penetration stood at approximately 29%, but we would expect that to fall in the near term as we ramp enablements. That said, today, we are pleased to announce that our Quantum 2020 vintage penetration is greater than 22% and ramping nicely, supporting our expectations for the longer-term penetration opportunity. This is bolstered by our current Quantum NPS score within RemainCo, which is greater than positive 50, highlighting the quality, speed and customer-friendly nature of our fiber offering. Quantum is an all-digital prepaid product that features simple pricing with no contracts, helping reduce call center volumes and bolstering our NPS scores. Turning to adjusted EBITDA. For the first quarter of 2022, adjusted EBITDA, excluding special items, was $1.966 billion compared to $2.165 billion in the year ago quarter. Our adjusted EBITDA this quarter benefited from $59 million from the CAF II revenue release mentioned earlier. Special items this quarter totaled $52 million and were related primarily to transaction and separation activities. Our adjusted EBITDA margin was 42% this quarter. When comparing margins to the year-ago period, you should consider the nonrecurring CAF II benefit of $59 million this quarter and the $123 million of high-margin CAF II subsidy revenue in the prior-year period. When adjusting for these impacts, our first quarter 2022 margin would have been 41.3%, compared to 41.6% in the year-ago period. Capital expenditures for the first quarter of 2022 were $577 million. We continue to focus on capital efficiencies; however, when you think about our capital spending, be aware that we had a meaningful year-end 2021 spend ahead of our quantum acceleration. Lower capital expenditures this quarter does not change our outlook for the year. In the first quarter, capital expenditures represent accelerated investment in engineering and preconstruction activities. Future quarters will represent accelerated construction results. Also note that there will be timing differences with respect to reported capex based upon payment terms for our purchases. Our full-year capital guidance remains unchanged. With respect to our maintenance capital spending, as we look at the average over the last few years, it has been in the $400 million to $500 million a year range. In the first quarter of 2022, the company generated free cash flow of $846 million which was positively impacted by the timing of capital expenditures, as I mentioned. Moving on to our outlook. We are adjusting our expectations for both EBITDA and free cash flow to reflect the expected closing date of our ILEC transaction, as Jeff highlighted earlier. Our capital expenditure guidance range remains unchanged given the relatively small impact of the new expected ILEC closing date on that metric. We now expect 2022 adjusted EBITDA between $6.9 billion and $7.1 billion and free cash flow between $2 billion and $2.2 billion. In order to provide a bit more detail on the other category within the waterfall chart in our earnings presentation, you should consider three main moving parts: investing in opex for growth, the synergies expected related to transactions and lower transformation cost savings expected in 2022 as we focus resources on separating the pending divestitures. I think it's fair to consider these three items as roughly equal in size. Also, be aware that we expect both the synergies as well as the pause on transformation savings to be transitory in nature. Recall that in terms of special items for 2022, we expect a significant ramp-up in costs compared to prior years, primarily driven by dedicated third-party costs to support transition services for the divestitures. The cost for these services are removed from adjusted EBITDA. The reimbursement for these services will be in other income with no material net impact to our cash flows and reflected in our schedules of non-GAAP items impacting net income. In closing, I look forward to engaging with all of you and our analysts and investor communities and hope to have an opportunity as the year progresses to meet many of you in person to discuss what I see as a tremendous opportunity for shareholder returns here at Lumen. Our team is focused on executing on our growth initiatives for Lumen Enterprise and scaling our Quantum Fiber business, which we expect as we drive our return to top line growth. As a reminder, in addition to free cash flow generated from the business, we expect about $7 billion in discretionary cash proceeds later this year from the transactions after the transfer of debt, taxes and transaction-related costs. The combination of free cash flow from the business and proceeds from portfolio rationalization efforts support our 2022 capital allocation priorities. With that, we are ready for your questions. 