  OperatorWelcome to Broadcom Inc.'s second-quarter fiscal year 2021 financial results conference call. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Ji Yoo, director of investor relations of Broadcom Inc. Please go ahead.Ji Yoo -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. Joining me on today's call are Hock Tan, president and CEO; Kirsten Spears, chief financial officer; Tom Krause, president, infrastructure software group; and Charlie Kawwas, chief operating officer. Broadcom also distributed a press release and financial tables after the market closes, describing our financial performance for the second quarter of fiscal year 2021. If you did not receive a copy, you may obtain the information from the Investors section of Broadcom's website at broadcom.com.

 



 This conference call is being webcast live, and a recording will be available via telephone playback for one week. It will also be archived in the Investors section of our website at broadcom.com. During the prepared comments, Hock and Kirsten will be providing details of our second-quarter fiscal year 2021 results, guidance for our third quarter, as well as commentary regarding the business environment. We'll take questions after the end of our prepared comments.Please refer to our press release today and our recent filings with the SEC for information on the specific risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made on this call. In addition to U.S. GAAP reporting, Broadcom reports certain financial measures on a non-GAAP basis. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in the tables attached to today's press release. Comments made during today's call will primarily refer to our non-GAAP financial results. I'll now turn the call over to Hock. Hock Tan -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Ji, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. In Q2, semiconductor solutions revenue grew a strong 20% year on year to $4.8 billion, with infrastructure software revenue growing an expected 4% year on year to $1.8 billion. Consolidated net revenue was of $6.6 billion, up 15% year on year. Now, on the last earnings call we had, we talked about how strong broadband and networking bookings were from hyper cloud and service providers, even as wireless was declining seasonally. In Q2 just passed, not only do we see broadband and networking sustaining, we now see a recovery of bookings from enterprise. And on the supply side, hourly times have now stabilized, but the volume of bookings we are experiencing today continues to grow. Now, we intend to meet such demand, and in doing so, we maintain our disciplined process of carefully reviewing our backlog, identifying real end-user demand, and delivering products accordingly. With that as context, let me provide you more color. Starting with broadband, which interestingly now is going through somewhat of a renaissance. Revenue grew 28% year on year and represented 18% of our semiconductor revenue. As discussed during our Broadband Teach-In, the work, learn, and play from home environment, is driving global service providers to expand connectivity to the home. In our broadband carrier access business, PON fiber or otherwise known as PON grew over 40% year on year, mostly with existing generation 2.5G. But with next-generation 10G PON representing only 30% today, there is significant room for content growth as 10G PON deploys over the next few years. Not to be outdone by fiber, cable operators in the U.S. are driving deployment of DOCSIS 3.1 cable modems, we saw an 80% year-on-year growth and planning to accelerate the upgrade to next-generation DOCSIS 4.0. Our broadband technologies, in fact, are enabling service providers to complement the 5G to deliver best experience for consumers.

 



 Now, overlaying all these last-mile broadband upgrades, we see a demand surge for the latest WiFi 6 and 6E technology to enable the last 100 feet of connectivity in homes. Broadcom has emerged as the clear market and technology leader in WiFi for access gateways to the home and to enterprises, with over 50 million ports shipped in Q2 alone or a year-on-year revenue growth of some 30%. On the other hand, as we might expect, with the push into higher-performance fiber, copper DSL, digital subscriber line deployments for wireline broadband, declined 30% year on year. And with a lack of live events during the pandemic, video declined 20%. But with the onset of 5G, service providers are competing for subscribers, leading to technology upgrades globally in fiber, cable, and WiFi connectivity. We're seeing this investment cycle in broadband extending into 2022. And so for Q3, we expect to sustain double-digit year-on-year revenue growth in this segment. Moving on to networking. Networking grew 10% year on year and represented 32% of our semiconductor revenue. We experienced tailwinds from hyper cloud and telcos, partially offset by headwinds from enterprise. Revenue for switching was up 30% year on year, primarily driven by the strong ramp of our Trident and Tomahawk 3 for over 400G platforms and hyper cloud data centers. In the network, service providers have been investing in 5G infrastructure worldwide, where the demand for Jericho2 at the metro core and Qumran at the edge have been robust with revenue up 35% year on year. On the other hand, enterprise demand in networking has not yet recovered, still down double digits from a year ago. But as we go into the back half of the year, we expect to see hyper cloud upgrading to our next-generation Trident, Tomahawk 4 or over 800G switching platforms, and sustained strength by service providers in network routing. And accordingly, in Q3, we expect networking revenue to maintain the trend of low double-digit growth year on year. We found the complete recovery of enterprise demand. Speaking of enterprise, let's talk about server storage connectivity, which represented approximately 12% of semiconductor revenue. This end market is largely driven by enterprise. And in line with our guidance, revenue was down 16% year on year. You may recall, however, in Q1, this was down 22%. And as the economy starts to recover, we are seeing an improving demand trajectory. And so in Q3, we expect server storage connectivity revenue to be down high single-digit percentage year on year. With the launch of Intel's Ice Lake, AMD's Milan, as well as future ARM-based servers, this space is turning quite exciting and innovative for us, both in hardware and software. And we will provide, obviously, more color during our next teach-in in July on our server storage business. Moving on to wireless. Q2 revenue was down 16% sequentially, reflecting seasonality, with wireless representing 34% of semiconductor revenue mix. Nonetheless, on a year-over-year basis, wireless revenue was up 48%, reflecting a very favorable compare year on year, as well as content increases in FBAR and WiFi. In Q2, we were able to ship more than we had originally planned. And accordingly, in Q3, we expect the growth trend in wireless revenue to sustain but at over 30% year on year. Finally, industrial and other represented approximately 4% of Q2 semiconductor solutions revenue. Resales grew 34% year over year in Q2, driven by recovery in automotive and China. Inventory in the channel continues to deplete as what we shipped in the distributors grew only 23%. Turning to Q3, we expect resales to continue to grow double-digit percentage on a year-on-year basis. Summary, Q2 semiconductor solutions segment was up 20% year on year. And in Q3, we expect revenue growth year over year to be of a similar amount. Turning to software. In Q2, infrastructure software produced another quarter of steady and predictable results as revenue grew 4% year on year and represented 27% of total revenue. Now, if we exclude professional services, our enterprise software revenue grew 7% actually year over year. And a further indicator of the quality and sustainability of our products, over 90% of our software bookings represented recurring subscription and maintenance with an average contract life span from core customers pretty much close to three years. We continue to believe our infrastructure software business is on track to grow at or better than mid-single-digit percentage year over year, which is, again, what we expect to see in Q3. Summarizing this, demand continues to be robust, and so our Q2 consolidated net revenue grew 15% year over year. We expect the momentum to sustain in Q3 and total revenue to be at $6.75 billion or up 16% year on year. With that, let me now turn the call over to Kirsten.Kirsten Spears -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Hock. Let me now provide additional detail on our financial performance. Revenue was $6.6 billion for the quarter, up 15% from a year ago. Gross margins were a record 75% of revenue in the quarter and up approximately 180 basis points year on year. Operating expenses were $1.2 billion, down 1% year on year, driven by lower SG&A, offset in part by increased investment in R&D. Operating income for the quarter was $3.8 billion and was up 25% from a year ago. Operating margin was 58% of revenue, up approximately 470 basis points year on year. Adjusted EBITDA was $4 billion or 60% of revenue. This figure excludes $133 million of depreciation. Now, a review of the P&L for our two segments. Revenue for our semiconductor solutions segment was $4.8 billion and represented 73% of total revenue in the quarter. This was up 20% year on year. Gross margins for our semiconductor solutions segment were approximately 69%, up 290 basis points year on year, driven primarily by higher product margins. This margin improvement comes from content growth as we deploy more next-generation products in broadband and networking end markets. Operating expenses were $795 million in Q2, up approximately 2% year on year as we invested in R&D, and streamlined SG&A. R&D was $702 million in Q2, up approximately 6% year on year. Q2 operating margins increased to 53%, up 580 basis points year on year. So while semiconductor revenue was up 20%, operating profit grew 35%. Moving to the P&L for our infrastructure software segment. Revenue for infrastructure software was $1.8 billion and represented 27% of revenue. This was up 4% year on year. Gross margins for infrastructure software were 90% in the quarter, up 100 basis points year over year. Operating expenses were $355 million in the quarter, down 8% year on year as we've completed the integration of Symantec. R&D spending at $228 million is up 1% year over year. Operating profit was up 10% year on year on top-line growth of 4%. Operating margin was 70% in Q2, up 360 basis points year over year. Moving to cash flow. Free cash flow in the second quarter was $3.4 billion, representing 52% of revenue. Days sales outstanding were 33 days in the second quarter, compared to 51 days a year ago. We ended the second quarter with inventory of $1 billion, an increase of $52 million or 5% from the end of the prior quarter. We should also note in Q2, we spent $126 million on capital expenditures. On the financing front, we extended our weighted average debt maturity to approximately 10 years from nine by exchanging notes. Our weighted average coupon decreased about 5 basis points to 3.7%. During the quarter, we made $1.5 billion in payments on debt obligations, ending the quarter with $9.5 billion of cash and $40.4 billion of total debt, of which $278 million is short term. Turning to capital allocation. In the quarter, we paid stockholders $1.6 billion of cash dividends. We also paid $461 million in withholding taxes due on vesting of employee equity, resulting in the elimination of approximately 1 million AVGO shares. We ended the quarter with 410 million outstanding common shares and 450 million diluted shares. Note that we expect the diluted share count to be 449 million in Q3. The board of directors has approved a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock of $3.60 per share in Q3. Based on current trends and conditions, our guidance for the third quarter of fiscal 2021 is for consolidated revenues to be $6.75 billion and adjusted EBITDA of approximately 60% of projected revenue. That concludes my prepared remarks. Operator, please open up the call for questions. 