  OperatorWelcome to Broadcom Inc.'s third-quarter fiscal year 2021 financial results conference call. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Ji Yoo, director of investor relations of Broadcom Inc.Ji Yoo -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. Joining me on today's call are Hock Tan, president and CEO; Kirsten Spears, chief financial officer; Tom Krause, president, Broadcom Software Group; and Charlie Kawwas, chief operating officer. Broadcom also distributed a press release and financial tables after the market closed, describing our financial performance for the third quarter of fiscal year 2021. If you did not receive a copy, you may obtain the information from the Investors section of Broadcom's website at broadcom.com.

 



 This conference call is being webcast live, and a recording will be available via telephone playback for one week. It will also be archived in the Investors section of our website at broadcom.com. During the prepared remarks, Hock and Kirsten will be providing details of our third-quarter fiscal year 2021 results, guidance for our fourth quarter, as well as commentary regarding the business environment. We'll take questions after the end of our prepared comments.Please refer to our press release today and our recent filings with the SEC for information on the specific risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made on this call. In addition to U.S. GAAP reporting, Broadcom reports certain financial measures on a non-GAAP basis. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in the tables attached to today's press release. Comments made during today's call will primarily refer to our non-GAAP financial results. I'll now turn the call over to Hock. Hock Tan -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Ji. And thank you, everyone, for joining us today. In Q3, semiconductor solutions revenue grew 19% year on year to $5 billion, with infrastructure software revenue growing 10% year on year to $1.8 billion. Consolidated net revenue was $6.8 billion or up 16% year on year. In Q3, demand continued to be strong from hyper-cloud and service provider customers. Wireless continued to have a strong year-on-year compare. And while enterprise has been on a trajectory of recovery, we believe Q3 is still early in that cycle, and that enterprise was down year on year. On the supply side, we continue to keep our lead times stable. With that as context, let me provide more color by end markets. Starting with networking. Networking revenue of $1.8 billion grew stronger than we had forecasted, up 19% year on year versus low double-digit growth and represented 36% of our semiconductor revenue. The better-than-expected growth was driven by routing from service providers in the expansion of 5G networks for backhaul, metro, and call, as well as major share gains in ethernet network interface controllers within data centers. While we experienced strong orders from OEMs, consistent with a recovering environment for enterprise spending, we believe actual deployment of networking in enterprise are still lagging from a year ago. Our shipments and revenue appropriately reflects this. In Q4, however, we expect a different set of demand dynamics. We see cloud customers upgrading to our next-generation 800-gigabit base Tomahawk 4 and Trident switches.

 



 We're the first and only provider of 25.6 terabit switches, and we are shipping two versions: one with 512 lanes at 50G SerDes; and we have 256 lanes at 100G SerDes. I would like to highlight that we are the only company today shipping 100G SerDes. In data center switching, as in service provider routing, we continue to lead in next-generation product transitions as our engineers continue to out-execute what's out there. And in Q4, against a very strong year-on-year compare, we expect networking revenue growth to be low double digits year on year. Next, our server storage connectivity business was $673 million in Q3, down 9% year on year, in line with our guidance, and represented approximately 13% of semiconductor revenue. As you know, our products here supply mission-critical applications largely to enterprise, which, as I said earlier, was in a state of recovery. That being said, we have seen a very strong booking trajectory from traditional enterprise customers within this segment. We expect such enterprise recovery in server storage. And the same is happening in networking to be one of the engines of growth in Q4 and into 2022. In this particular segment, customer transition to our next-generation SaaS and nVME connectivity at the server, exemplifying this growth. The aggressive migration in cloud to 18-terabyte hard disk drives will also provide a strong tailwind to demand for external storage connectivity products in this segment. In sharp contrast to the 9% decline in Q3, we forecast in Q4, server storage connectivity revenue to be up low double-digit percentage year on year. Moving on to broadband. Revenue of $910 million in Q3 grew 23% year on year and represented 18% of semiconductor revenue. This was primarily driven by the 2x growth in deployments of WiFi 6 access gateways, as well as double-digit growth in next-generation fiber and DOCSIS 3.1 cable modem deployments. For Q4, we continue to expect double-digit year-on-year revenue growth in broadband, we've been seeing for the last few quarters. So looking ahead, we see service providers like AT&T, British Telecom, and even Deutsche Telekom, deploying in increasing volumes next-generation last-mile fiber connectivity to homes in the U.S. and globally. These multiyear and multibillion-dollar investments by these operators and attach to every one of these fiber nodes, you need WiFi connectivity for the last 100 feet within the homes, and we lead the global transition to WiFi 6 today. We expect our strong design win momentum for WiFi 6e at U.S. and European operators will sustain our market position into the next generation. Now moving to wireless. Q3 revenue of $1.4 billion was up 35% year on year, in line with expectations, and represented 29% of semiconductor revenue mix. In Q4, we expect wireless revenue to ramp approximately 33% sequentially in support of the launch of next-generation smartphones and to be up 25% year on year. Finally, industrial. Revenue of $205 million in Q3 represented approximately 4% of Q3 semiconductor solutions revenue. Resales here grew what we consider an unsustainable 55% year over year, driven by aggressive buying from OEMs in automotive, robotics, and renewable energy. As a result, inventory in our channels declined significantly to below two months. And turning to Q4, we expect resales to come down to a more rational 20% year-upon-year growth. And so in summary, Q3 semiconductor solutions revenue was up 19% year on year. And in Q4, we expect the momentum to continue and revenue growth to be up double-digit percentage year on year. Turning to software. In Q3, infrastructure software revenue of $1.8 billion grew 10% year on year and represented 26% of total revenue. Within this, Brocade grew 27% year on year, driven by the launch of new generation Gen 7 Fibre Channel SAN products. Excluding Brocade, Broadcom software revenue grew 6% year on year. In dollar terms, bookings averaged 116% over expiring contracts, while in our core accounts we averaged 129%. Over 9% of these bookings represented recurring subscription and maintenance revenues. Reflecting these renewals, we expect our infrastructure software revenue to be on track to grow around mid-single-digit percentage year over year, which is, again, what we expect to see in Q4. So in summary, combining a strongly growing semiconductor segment with a more stable software segment, total Q3 net revenue grew 16% year on year, and we expect this double-digit growth to sustain in Q4 and total revenue to be $7.35 billion or up 14% year on year. And with that, let me turn the call over to Kirsten.Kirsten Spears -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Hock. Let me now provide additional detail on our financial performance. Revenue was $6.8 billion for the quarter, up 16% from a year ago. Gross margins were 75% of revenue in the quarter and up approximately 85 basis points year on year. Operating expenses were $1.1 billion, flat year on year, driven by lower SG&A and continued investment in R&D. Operating income for the quarter was $3.9 billion and was up 24% from a year ago. Operating margin was 58% of revenue, up approximately 360 basis points year on year. Adjusted EBITDA was $4.1 billion or 61% of revenue. This figure excludes $134 million of depreciation. Now a review of the P&L for our two segments. Revenue for our semiconductor solutions segment was $5 billion and represented 74% of total revenue in the quarter. This was up 19% year on year. Gross margins for our semiconductor solutions segment were approximately 70%, up 110 basis points year on year, driven primarily by favorable product mix and content growth as we deploy more next-generation products in broadband and networking. Operating expenses were $783 million in Q3, flat year on year. R&D was $693 million in Q3, up 1% year on year. Q3 operating margins increased to 54%, up 410 basis points year on year. So while semiconductor revenue was up 19%, operating profit grew 29%. Moving to the P&L for our infrastructure software segment. Revenue for infrastructure software was $1.8 billion and represented 26% of revenue. This was up 10% year on year. Gross margins for infrastructure software were 90% in the quarter, up 125 basis points year over year. Operating expenses were $359 million in the quarter, up 1% year over year. R&D spending at $226 million is up 9% year over year, and SG&A of $133 million is down 11% year over year. Operating margin was 70% in Q3, up 305 basis points year over year; and operating profit grew 15%. Moving to cash flow. Free cash flow in the third quarter was $3.4 billion, representing 51% of revenue. We spent $115 million on capital expenditures. Days sales outstanding were 30 days in the third quarter, compared to 42 days a year ago. We ended the third quarter with inventory of $1.2 billion, an increase of $156 million or 16% from the end of the prior quarter in preparation to meet customer demand in Q4. We ended the third quarter with $11.1 billion of cash and $40.5 billion of total debt, of which $279 million is short-term. Turning to capital allocation. In the quarter, we paid stockholders $1.6 billion of cash dividends. We also paid $347 million in withholding taxes due on vesting of employee equity, resulting in the elimination of approximately 739,000 AVGO shares. We ended the quarter with 412 million outstanding common shares and 449 million diluted shares. Note that we expect the diluted share count to be 448 million in Q4. Our board of directors has approved a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock of $3.60 per share in Q4. Based on current business trends and conditions, and to reiterate what Hock has said, our guidance for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 is for consolidated revenues of $7.35 billion and adjusted EBITDA of approximately 61% of projected revenue. That concludes my prepared remarks. Operator, please open up the call for questions. 