
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded on April 22, 2021.I would now like to turn the call over to Dave Cresci, Investor Relations Manager at MarketAxess. Please go ahead, sir.David Cresci -- Investor Relations Manager

 



Good morning, and welcome to the MarketAxess First Quarter 2021 Conference Call. For the call, Rick McVey, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will review the highlights for the quarter; Chris Concannon, President and COO, will discuss automation and product expansion; and then, Tony DeLise, Chief Financial Officer, will review the financial results.Before I turn the call over to Rick, let me remind you that today's call may include forward-looking statements. These statements represent the company's beliefs regarding future events that, by their nature are uncertain. The company's actual results and financial condition may differ materially from what is indicated in those forward-looking statements. For a discussion of some of the risks and factors that could affect the company's future results, please see the description of risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. I would also direct you to read the forward-looking statement disclaimer in our quarterly earnings release, which was issued earlier this morning and is now available on our website.Now let me turn the call over to Rick.Richard M. McVey -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you for joining us for our first quarter earnings call. First quarter revenue reached a new quarterly record of $195 million, up 16%, operating income of $103 million was up 14% and EPS of $2.11 was up 8%. Record revenue was driven primarily by market share gains in our core credit products, new quarterly volume records were set for total credit trading volume as well as new volume records for high-yield trading, emerging markets, Eurobonds and municipal bonds.Open Trading volumes grew 20% year-over-year and estimated transaction cost savings delivered to our clients were $197 million. International client volume was up 18% and reached a new record of $237 billion [Phonetic]. It is important to remember that in Q1 last year we had FIFO weeks of elevated credit market activity due to the onset of the pandemic. In light of the significant difference in market conditions this year, we feel very good about the volume, revenue and earnings growth this quarter.Slide 4 provides an update on market conditions. The top left chart displays just how different the market environment was one year ago. Our business thrives when credit spread volatility increases. During Q1 last year, credit spread volatility was 10 times greater than this year, and credit spreads in high-grade were nearly 200 basis points wider. New issue activity was strong during the quarter and similar to last year. TRACE volumes in high-grade were up 7% in Q1, reflecting a continuing trend toward higher secondary market turnover. Average years to maturity for investment-grade bonds traded on this system continues to climb and reached the high end of the historical range at 10 years this quarter.Slide 5 provides an update on Open Trading. Our market-leading all-to-all marketplace Open Trading set new records this quarter with an average of 34,000 orders per day totaling over $19 billion in notional value per day in credit products, high grade, high-yield, and emerging markets all show healthy Open Trading volume increases in excess of 20%. Dealer initiated Open Trading orders were up 78% year-over-year. Our D2D business now represents 8% of our credit trading volume and 7% of credit trading revenue, as we compete effectively in this client segment with more traditional D2D competitors through Open Trading.

 



This quarter, two-thirds of our systemwide open orders traded with a traditional dealer counterparty, while one-thirds on price improvement in Open Trading. Open Trading ADV reached a new record of $4 billion per day, up 22% year-over-year. For the fifth quarter in a row estimated transaction cost savings of $197 million delivered to our clients were in excess of total company credit trading revenue.Now let me turn the call over to Chris to provide an update on product and client expansion.Chris Concannon -- President and Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Rick. Slide 6 highlights our international growth and product expansion. Throughout the past year, we've remained focused on bolstering our global footprint and expanding our product offerings. I will touch on a few of these initiatives today. Our international growth continues with an 18% year-over-year increase in international client volumes driven by over 900 active clients across our global products.In the first quarter, US credit volume from international clients was up 23%, emerging markets volume increased by 22%, and Eurobond volumes increased by 13%. Our ongoing investment in Asia-Pacific region delivered an increase in the number of clients and significant gains in volume. Client credit volume from the region grew to $29 billion, up 57% from the first quarter of 2020, as the number of clients in the region also grew by 14% over the past year. We are encouraged by the progress we are making outside the US and we believe we are well-positioned to capture a larger share of trading in the growing global credit markets.In the area of product expansion, we continue to see momentum in our municipal bond offering. In the first quarter, we again hit record volumes with a total of $5.8 billion in municipal bond volumes, up 75% from a year ago. We also released recently closed on the acquisition of MuniBrokers, essential electronic venue serving large banks and inter-dealer brokers in the municipal bond market. The acquisition expands our connectivity with dealers and provides rich content for our growing muni client business.Our post-trade business, an important contributor to our data strategy continues to grow with organic post-trade revenue up 50% in the first quarter, driven largely by new client additions in our SFTR offering. We now have over 950 unique post-trade clients. The integration of our recently acquired Regulatory Reporting Hub is well under way and is extending our leading regulatory reporting business across Europe, while further strengthening our data capabilities and our post-trade services.Slide 7 demonstrates our continued momentum of automation in credit trading. Automated trading and dealers automated responses continue to grow across the platform. Automated trading volumes rose to $39 billion in the first quarter, up from $31 billion in the first quarter of 2020. Auto-X trade count also grew in the quarter to 205,000, up 37% from the prior year. 95 firms utilized our Auto-X functionality in the quarter, up from 84 in Q1 of last year, while 22 firms used our Auto Responder functionality. We are also seeing healthy adoption of Auto-X across investment grade, Eurobonds, high-yield, and emerging markets.The use of dealer algorithms is continuing to grow on the platform with approximately 4.8 million algo responses in the first quarter, up 57% from the same period last year. The growth in the average number of responses per inquiry has resumed following a decline in the first half of last year. The increasing responses ultimately improves the likelihood of execution across the platform. As the overall share of electronic trading grows in global credit, we are seeing continued demand for and growth in our automated trading solutions. We are continuing to develop innovative automated trading solutions in collaboration with our buy and sell side clients and I look forward to sharing updates to our offering in the coming quarters.Slide 8 provides a summary of our trading volume across product categories. Our US high-grade volumes were up 10% year-over-year to $363 billion for the quarter, largely due to an increase in market volumes and market share gains. Estimated US high-grade market volumes were up 7%, while estimated share increased, market share increased by 0.5 percentage points year-over-year to 20.5%.Volumes in our Other credit category were up 19% year-over-year to $391 billion for the quarter and we achieved record quarterly trading volume in high-yield, emerging markets, Eurobonds, and municipal bonds. Market share gains account for the vast majority of the increase across each product category with US high-yield volume up 21%, emerging markets volume up 18%, Eurobond volume up 15%, and municipal bonds up 75%.Our Rates business maintained its dealer to dealer market share compared to Q4 of 2020 and we are beginning to see volume contribution from both our new dealer to client trading protocol and our recently launched hedging initiatives. Over 150 clients are now approved for our Click to Trade rates offering regarding April activity with seven full days of trading left in April, it is far too early to draw any conclusions on the format. However, TRACE market volumes are currently running below Q1 levels and our market share is maintaining levels similar to Q1.Now let me turn the call over to Tony to provide an update on our financials.Antonio L. DeLise -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Chris. On slide 9, we've provided a summary of our quarterly earnings performance. Revenue was a record $195 million, up 16% year-over-year, the 14% increase in credit trading volume led to a 13% uplift in commissions. Post-trade services revenue more than doubled to $10.3 million and includes $4 million of trade reporting revenue from client added through the Regulatory Reporting Hub acquisition.Operating income was up 14% year-over-year and operating margin was 53% in the first quarter. EBITDA hit a record quarterly level in the quarter. Other expense was $1.6 million in the first quarter and includes foreign currency transaction losses of $500,000. Absent unpredictable items like foreign currency transaction and investment gains and losses, we would expect Other expense to run around $1 million per quarter.The effective tax rate was 21% in the first quarter and reflects $4 million of excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation awards. Inclusive of the recently enacted increase in the New York State corporate tax rate, we are maintaining our full-year effective tax rate guidance range of 22% to 24%.On slide 10, we have laid out our commission revenue, trading volumes, and fees per million. Total variable transaction fees were up 15% year-over-year. On a composite basis, the majority of the 17% increase in credit transaction fees was driven by estimated market share gains. The decline in Rates transaction fees was due to lower US treasuries trading volume, principally resulting from a decline in estimated dealer to dealer market volumes.US high-grade fee per million was down $7 versus the fourth quarter level but $4 higher year-over-year. It was several factors contributing to the sequential decline in fee capture including a shift in trade size. The duration impact on US high-grade fee capture was muted on a sequential quarterly basis as longer years to maturity on bonds traded over the platform was offset by higher bond yields. Our other credit category fee per million of $202 was similar to both the fourth quarter 2020 and first quarter 2020 levels. Product mix, along with fee capture at the individual product level was very consistent across these periods.Slide 11 provides you with the expense detail. First quarter expenses were up 18% year-over-year and includes $3.6 million of operating expenses, amortization of acquired intangibles and non-recurring integration costs related to the Regulatory Reporting Hub business. Excluding the Regulatory Reporting Hub activity, expenses were up 14% year-over-year and up 11% on a constant currency basis. The rise in compensation and benefits was due to an increase in headcount of 74 personnel in support of our growth initiatives. The increase in professional and consulting expenses is due to a variety of factors including M&A transaction and integration costs and consulting costs associated with our clearing and settlement transition projects.Higher depreciation and amortization reflects the continuing investment in product development along with the amortization of acquired intangibles. While Open Trading volume increased 20%, overall clearing costs were down 15%. In March, we completed the second phase of our settlement project with the transition to a new settlement agent in the UK. Although we expect to realize some further cost improvements over the balance of this year, I'm happy to report that third-party clearing costs measured on a per ticket basis declined by over 35% year-over-year.As Chris mentioned, we closed the MuniBrokers acquisition on April 9. We expect MuniBrokers expenses will be around $4 million in 2021, 50% of which will be amortization of acquired intangibles. We are updating our full-year expense guidance range to $370 million to $386 million to incorporate the MuniBrokers expense activity.On slide 12, we provide balance sheet information. Cash and investments were $415 million at March 31 and trailing 12 months free cash flow reached $340 million. During the first quarter, we paid out year-end employee bonuses and related taxes of roughly $50 million and the quarterly cash dividend of $25 million. We also repurchased 54,000 shares during the quarter, the majority of which were associated with the investing of employee stock awards. We didn't borrow against the revolving credit facility in the first quarter and ended the period with over $300 million of excess net capital resident at MarketAxess Corp, our regulated self-clearing entity. Based on the first quarter results, our Board has approved a $0.66 regular quarterly dividend.Now let me turn the call back to Rick.Richard M. McVey -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Tony. Market share gains across all credit products in all geographic regions drove our record results in Q1. Trading automation is advancing in credit products with both dealer and investor clients and MarketAxess Open Trading is leading the way. We continue to invest actively in new product areas like municipal bonds, government bonds, and Asia emerging markets to sustain long-term growth. We are also pleased with the progress we are making with new electronic trading protocols.Now, I would be happy to open the line for your questions.