  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Seagen second-quarter 2021 financial results conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms. Peggy Pinkston, senior vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Peggy Pinkston -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. I'd like to welcome all of you to Seagen's second-quarter 2021 financial results conference call. This afternoon, we issued a press release with our results, and that press release and supporting slides are available on our website in the investors' section, events and presentations page. Speakers on today's call will be Clay Siegall, president and chief executive officer; Todd Simpson, chief financial officer; Chip Romp, executive vice president, commercial US; and Roger Dansey, chief medical officer. Following our prepared remarks, we'll open the line for questions. We aim to keep this call to one hour and so ask that you limit yourself to one question to give everyone an opportunity to participate in Q&A during our call today. Today's conference call will include forward-looking statements regarding future or anticipated events and results, including the company's 2021 financial outlook anticipated product sales, revenues, costs and expenses, and potential clinical and regulatory milestones, including data readouts, regulatory submissions and approvals. Actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected or implied in these forward-looking statements.Factors that may cause such a difference include the difficulty in forecasting sales, revenues and expenses, impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the uncertainty associated with the pharmaceutical development and regulatory approval process. More information about the risks and uncertainties faced by Seagen is contained under the caption risk factors included in the company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2021 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the company's subsequent reports filed with the SEC. And now I'll turn the call over to Clay. Clay Siegall -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Peg, and good afternoon, everyone. This was an exceptional quarter for our business in terms of commercial performance, as well as regulatory and clinical progress. We're pleased to report the highest-ever net product sales across each of our approved medicines, as well as the highest sequential quarter-over-quarter dollar growth in product sales in our history. These results reflect strong commercial execution across PADCEV, TUKYSA and etc. Our financial strength is driven by product sales, as well as royalties and multiple strategic collaborations. We ended the quarter with $2.5 billion in cash and investments and have no debt. This positions us to expand our programs, advance our research and development and continue investing in our business. We remain focused on maximizing the opportunity and value of our approved drugs and developing additional transformative cancer therapies for patients around the world.  We look forward to sharing key business, regulatory, commercial, and development updates on the call today. We are focused on three strategic priorities that empower our ability to drive innovation, growth and substantial benefit for our stakeholders, including employees, oncologists, our communities, shareholders, and most notably, cancer patients. Our first strategic priority is to maximize the global potential of our three approved medicines through robust, clinical development and exceptional commercial execution. The first product I would like to highlight is PADCEV, a first-in-class ADC that has quickly become standard of care in previously treated metastatic urothelial cancer. Earlier this month, FDA granted PADCEV regular approval in the US based on data from the phase three EV-301 trial which demonstrated an overall survival advantage for patients treated with PADCEV versus chemotherapy. Full approval is important for the commercial team as inclusion of the OS data allows for promotion of PADCEV's demonstrated clinical benefit. PADCEV was also granted a second indication, making it the first and only FDA-approved therapy for urothelial cancer patients who are cisplatin-ineligible and have previously received one or more therapies. As a meaningful proportion of bladder cancer patients cannot tolerate cisplatin-based chemotherapy, there is an urgent need for more treatment options such as PADCEV. In addition to supporting regular approval in the US, the EV-301 data supports global regulatory submissions, which we and our partner, Astellas, continue to move forward.

 



 Another key product is TUKYSA, a best-in-class HER2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor, which has become an important standard of care in the US for the treatment of second and later-line HER2-positive breast cancer patients with and without brain metastasis. TUKYSA is now approved in 36 countries. And in addition to the US, has launched in Germany, France, Switzerland and Austria. We are actively engaging with country-specific authorities to gain reimbursement and broader access for TUKYSA outside the US We're pleased by early uptake, healthcare provider feedback and the fact that TUKYSA has already been included in key treatment guidelines. TUKYSA's broad clinical development program includes evaluation in HER2-positive breast cancer, as well as colorectal and gastric cancers and in other HER2 amplified or mutant tumors. We expect our strategic commercial collaboration with Merck to further accelerate TUKYSA's global reach in regions outside of the US, Canada and Europe. The third product I'll highlight is ADCETRIS, which is the established foundation of care in multiple CD30-expressing lymphomas. ADCETRIS is a remarkable product that is commercially available in 76 countries and serves as the bedrock of our core business, enabling us to continue investing in our pipeline and other products. A decade after approval, ADCETRIS just reported its highest-ever quarterly sales, which serves as further evidence of the significant benefit it offers to patients. We are committed to maximizing ADCETRIS reach and continuing to advance a comprehensive clinical development program in Hodgkin lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and solid tumors. In addition, our partner, Takeda, is pursuing approvals for frontline Hodgkin's lymphoma and peripheral T-cell lymphoma in its territories. Our second strategic priority is to advance late-stage programs toward securing approvals for new products. Tisotumab vedotin, or TV, is currently under priority review by FDA, seeking accelerated approval for recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer with a PDUFA action date of October 10th. TV is positioned to be our fourth commercial product as we look to expand our portfolio further. And together with our partner, Genmab, we are currently on track with launch preparations. This is an important development in the treatment of cervical cancer, which in the recurrent or metastatic setting, has a significant unmet medical need. Our third strategic priority is to expand our deep and diverse early stage pipeline through continued innovation encompassing antibody drug conjugates, immuno-oncology agents, R&D investments, corporate development, and strategic partnerships. In closing, I'd like to recognize our employees and partners around the world, who despite challenging conditions over the past 17 months, have worked tirelessly to progress our programs and build our business. We have now begun the process of appropriately and safely returning our US-based workforce to the office in a phased approach. Next, I'll turn the call over to Todd, who will provide an overview of our financial results. Then Chip will discuss our commercial performance. After that, Roger will provide an update on clinical development activities and our pipeline. Todd?Todd Simpson -- Chief Financial Officer Great. Thanks, Clay, and thanks to everyone for joining us on the call this afternoon. Our financial results reflect significant advancements made across the business. Today, I'll summarize our financial results for the second quarter and year to date, which are in line with our expectations for the full year. Total revenues were $388 million in the second quarter and $720 million for the year-to-date in 2021. Product sales from our three oncology franchises totaled $347 million in the second quarter, representing 15% sequential quarterly growth and 44% growth over the second quarter of 2020. This reflects revenues across our diverse commercial portfolio, which now has international reach. Royalty revenues were $36 million in the second quarter and $64 million for the year to date in 2021. Growth over 2020 reflects increasing sales of ADCETRIS by Takeda, as well as royalties on sales of Polivy by Roche and BLENREP by GSK. As expected, collaboration revenues were modest at $5 million in the second quarter and $7 million for the year to date in 2021. Cost of sales increased to $78 million in the second quarter and $142 million for the first half of 2021. This included product cost of sales and royalties for each of our three brands, the PADCEV gross profit share to Astellas, which was $39 million in the second quarter and $71 million for the year-to-date, as well as noncash amortization of acquired technology costs for TUKYSA. R&D expenses were $235 million in the second quarter and $465 million for the first half of 2021.  These are increases over 2020 and reflect increased investment across our early and late-stage pipeline. SG&A expenses were $165 million in the second quarter and $325 million for the first half of 2021. These are increases over 2020, reflecting investments to support European TUKYSA launches and our global expansion efforts. Lastly, we are maintaining our 2021 financial guidance, and we're pleased with our performance in the first half of the year. We have significant financial strength, which allows us to continue investing in our pipeline and business. Now, I'll turn the call over to Chip for an overview of our commercial performance.Chip Romp -- Executive Vice President, Commercial US Thank you, Todd. Performance across the commercial portfolio was strong in Q2, and we believe we are emerging from the pandemic with positive momentum. We are well positioned to drive continued growth with the recent asset label expansion, additional country launches for TUKYSA and the potential approval of TV. We are seeing a meaningful increase in the number of in-person sales calls by our field team, and our commercial infrastructure and capabilities are in place to maximize future product launches. ADCETRIS delivered a record quarter, a noteworthy accomplishment for a 10-year-old brand. ADCETRIS sales were $182 million, a 9% increase over Q2 2020, and a 12% increase in volume over last quarter. Our field sales force is returning toward normal call activity levels with mostly face-to-face interactions. We are now actively promoting the landmark five-year ECHELON-1 progression-free survival data in frontline Hodgkin lymphoma, as featured in the Lancet hematology publication. This is meaningful data to physicians and patients and solidifies the ADCETRIS regimen as the best option for frontline stage three or four Hodgkin lymphoma patients. Moving on to PADCEV. Second-quarter sales were $82 million, a 44% increase over the second quarter of 2020, and an 18% increase over last quarter. We are pleased with the conversion to full approval for PADCEV and a new indication for cisplatin-ineligible metastatic urothelial cancer patients who have previously received one or more lines of therapy. Our ability to now promote this new indication should drive incremental uptake, representing a meaningful, but modest opportunity. As we've discussed in past quarters, the metastatic urothelial cancer setting continues to evolve, and we are confident that PADCEV is well positioned to remain the standard of care. Transitioning to TUKYSA. Second-quarter sales were $83 million, an increase of 18% over last quarter. Our US launch has been very successful, and we continue to see high levels of utilization in patients with and without brain mets. In patients with brain mets, TUKYSA is the most utilized product in second and later lines for HER2-positive breast cancer. In Europe, early uptake has been very encouraging, notably with recent launches in France and Germany. The strength of evidence, including demonstrated overall survival benefit from the HER2CLIMB trial, along with favorable clinical guidelines, gives us confidence as we execute our reimbursement strategy in Europe. And finally, we are pleased that the TV BLA received priority review. And if approved, this would be an important new drug for women with previously treated metastatic cervical cancer. The team will be ready ahead of the October 10th PDUFA date, with a dedicated sales force in place. We are starting the second half of the year with great momentum across our portfolio of first-in-class or best-in-class products and look forward to potentially adding another important medicine soon to our proven commercial model. Now, I'll turn the call over to Roger to talk about our robust development activities. Roger?Roger Dansey -- Chief Medical Officer Thank you, Chip, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm happy to share recent clinical development updates for our approved medicines and our pipeline. I'll start with PADCEV. The FDA originally granted PADCEV accelerated approval for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer who have previously received a PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor and a platinum-containing chemotherapy. Continued approval was contingent upon confirmation of the clinical benefits in the EV-301 pivotal trial. The FDA has now granted PADCEV regular approval based on the trial success, which demonstrated improved survival among patients who received PADCEV compared to those who received chemotherapy. Further, the PADCEV US prescribing information now includes a new indication for the treatment of metastatic urothelial cancer patients who are ineligible for cisplatin and have previously received one or more prior lines of therapy. The new indication was also granted regular approval and is based on cohort two of the EV-201 trial. These results were recently published in Lancet Oncology and were updated with additional follow-up in the presentation at ASCO. 51% of patients achieved a confirmed objective response with a median duration of response of 13.8 months. These data are clinically meaningful in the setting of high unmet need where patients are older and are suffering from multiple comorbidities, commonly including poor kidney function. We are pleased with the broad nature of the second indication which does not specifically require prior PD-1 or PD-L1 treatment. Additionally, the new label has been updated with important safety information which further informs physicians on how to safely use PADCEV. The clinically compelling PADCEV data have enabled substantial regulatory progress outside of the United States, with marketing applications currently under review in the EU, Australia, Canada, Japan, Brazil, Switzerland, and Singapore. I'll turn now to first-line metastatic urothelial cancer. At ASCO, we presented updated durability and other long-term outcomes from cohort A of the EV-103 trial, evaluating PADCEV plus KEYTRUDA in cisplatin ineligible patients. The data showed a continued objective response rate of 73% and median duration of response extending to 25.6 months, Encouragingly, median PFS was 12.3 months and median OS was 26.1 months. The safety profile of this combination was generally consistent with previous findings. We are using the same regimen in Cohort K, which is intended to support accelerated approval. And we expect to complete enrollment of this cohort by the end of the year. In addition, we continue to enroll patients into the phase three EV-302 global trial, which includes both cisplatin-eligible and ineligible patients, evaluating PADCEV plus KEYTRUDA compared to a platinum-containing chemotherapy regimen. Our broad PADCEV development program also includes two phase three trials in patients with muscle-invasive disease. Both trials test PADCEV in combination with KEYTRUDA. The KEYNOTE-B15 or EV-304 trial is enrolling cisplatin-eligible patients, and KEYNOTE-905 or EV-303 trial is enrolling cisplatin-ineligible patients. Additionally, in the next few months, we expect to initiate a dose-finding trial of single-agent PADCEV in non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. PADCEV will be administered intravesically in BCG nonresponsive patients. Nectin-4 is highly expressed in non-muscle invasive bladder cancer, and there is promising preclinical data to support the potential opportunity for PADCEV to be active in this setting. We are also evaluating PADCEV in the basket trial of high Nectin-4 expressing solid tumors, including lung, breast, head and neck, gastric and esophageal cancer, and we await initial data to inform our next steps. Turning now to TUKYSA. At ASCO, we presented long-term data from the HER2CLIMB trial. The primary analysis upon which TUKYSA was approved was conducted just 14 months of follow-up. This presentation extended the time of follow-up to 29.6 months. The updated median overall survival increased to 24.7 months from the TUKYSA arm, with benefit maintained across all prespecified patient subgroups. There has also been a recent update to the NCCN treatment guidelines for patients with CNS involvement. TUKYSA plus trastuzumab and capecitabine is now the only regimen in this setting with a category one level of evidence. In earlier stages of breast cancer, we are evaluating TUKYSA plus KADCYLA versus KADCYLA alone in first and second-line metastatic patients in the HER2CLIMB-02 trial. We and Merck intend for this trial to support global approvals, including in China. In high-risk adjuvant breast cancer, enrollment continues in the randomized COMPASS HER2 RD trial, evaluating TUKYSA plus KADCYLA versus KADCYLA alone, which is being run by the Alliance Cooperative Group. In GI cancers, we remain on track to complete enrollment in the MOUNTAINEER trial by the end of 2021. This trial is intended to support an accelerated approval in the United States for patients with advanced HER2-positive colorectal cancer. Also, we are advancing TUKYSA in several studies, including in combination with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in first-line GI cancers. In a basket trial for solid tumors of HER2 alterations that include mutations and in combination within HER2 for HER2-positive breast cancer. Moving on now to ADCETRIS. We are pleased that the ECHELON-1 five-year manuscript was published in Lancet Hematology during the second quarter. As we have discussed, results demonstrated robust and durable remissions in patients with newly diagnosed advanced Hodgkin lymphoma who received ADCETRIS in combination with AVD. Importantly, we also saw fewer second malignancies and more pregnancies in patients on the ADCETRIS arm of the trial. We continue to execute our ADCETRIS clinical development program that includes ECHELON-3, our phase three trial in relapsed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, which compares ADCETRIS plus REVLIMID and RITUXAN versus REVLIMID and Rituxan. In frontline advanced, as well as early stage Hodgkin lymphoma, we are evaluating ADCETRIS in combination with nivolumab, adriamycin and dacarbazine. And in solid tumors, we are evaluating ADCETRIS as an immunomodulatory agent in combination with KEYTRUDA. I'll turn now to TV, which we are developing in collaboration with Genmab. The BLA currently under review is seeking accelerated approval of TV for the treatment of women with previously treated recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer. The BLA is supported by data from the Innovative 204 trial, which was recently published in Lancet Oncology. In addition, we are enrolling the Innovative 301 global phase three trial in a similar population that is intended to serve as the confirmatory trial in the United States and to support global regulatory applications. We believe TV could make a meaningful difference for women with cervical cancer, where there is such a high unmet need. Our next goal is to bring TV into earlier lines of metastatic or recurrent cervical cancer. And for that purpose, we are conducting the Innovative 205 trial in first or second line. In this trial, we are evaluating TV in combination with chemotherapy or KEYTRUDA, and we expect to report data at a medical meeting before the end of the year. Turning now to ladiratuzumab vedotin. We are working with our partner, Merck, focusing on optimizing dosing schedule as monotherapy and in combination with KEYTRUDA in breast cancer. We plan to present data from LV later this year. Next, I'd like to highlight the breadth and depth of our early stage pipeline. We are advancing seven programs in phase one clinical trials across a range of solid tumors and hematologic malignancies. These include the ADC's SGN-CD228A, B6A and SGNV, and we expect to submit INDs for at least two more ADC programs this year. In addition, we have four effective function-enhanced antibodies utilizing our SEA technology, including SEA-CD40, CD70, BCMA and TIGIT. With regard to SEA-CD40, earlier this year, we completed enrollment in a clinical trial evaluating it as part of a combination regimen for the treatment of pancreatic cancer. We expect to report clinical data from the trial sometime either later this year or early next year as the data mature. We are also planning to initiate a basket trial to evaluate SEA-CD40 in other solid tumors. In closing, we have achieved many important milestones and have made significant headway across our pipeline in the first half of 2021. We look forward to providing you with further updates on future calls. And now, I will turn the call back over to Clay.Clay Siegall -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Roger. I'm proud of the remarkable progress we have made in growing and evolving our business and technology, enabling us to develop exceptional oncology therapies. Today, we have a deep and diverse pipeline, a multiproduct commercial portfolio, and additional potential approvals on the horizon. Strategic partnerships, our expanded global infrastructure and substantial financial power fuel our ability to advance our portfolio, including our early and mid-stage pipeline. Our robust clinical development program and proven commercial engine demonstrate our ability to compete in the marketplace. And we are poised to maximize new assets in future launches. With our solid foundation, we are operating from a position of strength and are confident in our ability to continue delivering cutting-edge innovation and transformative medicines for cancer patients worldwide. Operator, please open the line for Q&A. 