  OperatorHello. My name is Philip, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Paycom Software first-quarter 2021 quarterly results conference call. [Operator instructions] Thank you. I'd now like to turn the call over to your host, Mr. James Samford. Please go ahead.James Samford -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and welcome to Paycom's first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Certain statements made on this call that are not historical facts, including those related to our future plans, objectives, and expected performance, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent our outlook only as of the date of this conference call. While we believe any forward-looking statements made on this call are reasonable, actual results may differ materially because the statements are based on our current expectations and subject to risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in our filings with the SEC, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q. You should refer to and consider these factors when relying on such forward-looking information. Any forward-looking statements made speak only as of the date on which it is made. And we do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.Also during today's call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, adjusted gross profit, adjusted gross margin and certain adjusted expenses. We use these non-GAAP financial measures to review and assess our performance and for planning purposes. A reconciliation schedule showing GAAP versus non-GAAP results is included in the press release that we issued at the close of the market today and is available on our website at investors.paycom.com. I will now turn the call over to Chad Richison, Paycom's president and chief executive officer. Chad? 

 



Chad Richison -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, James, and thank you to everyone joining our call today. I will spend a few minutes on the highlights of our first-quarter 2021 results, then I'll review the progress we are making on our goals for 2021. Following that, Craig will review our financials and our guidance, and then we will take questions. But first, I want to thank my colleague and good friend, Jeff York, for his many years of service leading our sales organization over the last 14 years. Jeff has built a sustainable sales organization with a deep bench of like-minded professionals. I look forward to continuing to work with him in his strategic leadership role. One of those like-minded individuals is our new chief sales officer, Holly Faurot. Holly is a true success story at Paycom. Her 14-year career with us began with an internship in the sales organization. Holly quickly progressed into a top sales rep, a top sales manager and a top regional sales manager earning many of the company's highest sales ranking awards along the way. In 2016, she was asked to further expand Paycom's client relations department, which presents additional products to clients and focuses on creating value by increasing employee usage. Holly has been instrumental in contributing to the success of Paycom across the entire sales organization, and I'm confident she will continue to build on the momentum we are seeing.

 



 We delivered strong first quarter results, even with a tough pre-COVID year-over-year comparison. Our 2021 first quarter revenue of $272.2 million grew 12.3% compared to the prior year period, and came in above the top end of our guidance range despite several previously identified headwinds. Unsurprisingly, the first quarter revenue was impacted by lower forms, filings and adjustments due to lower hiring trends in industries most impacted by the pandemic in 2020. Excluding forms, filings and adjustments revenue, our year-over-year recurring revenue growth accelerated again in Q1. As we go through 2021, we will have a cleaner comparison that will provide a truer reflection of our revenue growth profile since the arrival of the pandemic. Turning to profitability. Our first quarter adjusted EBITDA was $133 million, representing adjusted EBITDA margin of 48.9%. As reflected in our updated guidance, which Craig will discuss, we believe the combination of revenue growth and adjusted EBITDA margin makes us well-positioned to exceed the Rule of 60 in 2021. Our marketing plan continues to work very well, delivering strong demo leads in the first quarter. We continue to see success from our advertising spend, and we intend to continue to spend aggressively to fuel future revenue growth and expand a roughly 5% market share in a large and expanding HCM TAM. We are capitalizing on the shortcomings of disparate HCM systems with the value proposition, the Paycom single database solution that is stronger than ever. Employees expect their HR software to be efficient and easy to use. In fact, in a recent survey we commissioned with a third party, employees expressed frustration with complex and disparate HR software that lack the transparency and usability they've come to expect from consumer-oriented technologies. Paycom's employee usage strategy and single database solutions squarely addresses these expectations. We had record high employee usage rates in Q1, as measured by our Direct Data Exchange or DDX. This is fueling new opportunities for product innovation and automation for products like BETI, our better employee transaction interface for payroll, which we started rolling out to a select few clients during the quarter. BETI is already receiving high marks as it transforms the way payroll is done. I believe over the next 12 to 18 months, BETI will become the standard for how payroll should be done. Now that the first quarter is over, we have substantially lapped the pandemic's impact on our comparable year-over-year numbers. New client additions are driving our growth in Q2 and beyond. The negative revenue impact the pandemic had on our pre-pandemic client revenue remained stable. While we haven't seen any material improvement in employment trends at those same clients, our forecast and future growth initiatives are not dependent on any improvement. Our strategy throughout the pandemic has remained unchanged. We will continue to focus on the three controllable activities of providing world-class service to our clients, rapidly developing new technologies and increasing the number of new clients added to our platform. We've done a great job and succeeded in these areas, which has kept us on track to achieve our growth initiatives. I'd like to thank our employees for their patience, flexibility and grit over these last 14 months. In summary, now that we've lapped Q1's tough year-over-year comparison with the last pre-COVID quarter, we expect that the strength of our growth profile will be reflected in our future results. The record new business revenue and record number of new clients added in 2020, combined with robust first quarter sales, is bolstering our long-term revenue growth opportunity. As a reminder, we only have approximately 5% market share of a growing TAM, so we have a long runway ahead of us. Our strategy is working, and our products have never been more relevant. With that, I'll turn the call over to Craig for a review of our financials and guidance. Craig?Craig Boelte -- Chief Financial Officer Before I review our first-quarter 2021 results and our outlook for the second quarter and full year 2021, I would like to remind everyone that my comments related to certain financial measures will be on a non-GAAP basis. As Chad mentioned, we are pleased with our first-quarter results with total revenues of $272.2 million representing growth of roughly 12% over the comparable prior year period, which was primarily driven by new business wins, including very strong new client revenue starts in the first quarter. Within total revenues, recurring revenue was $267.8 million for the first quarter of 2021, representing 98% of total revenues for the quarter and growing 12% from the comparable prior year period. As expected, the effects of lower headcount on our pre-pandemic clients and the impact of 150 basis point interest rate cut that occurred in March 2020 remained relatively unchanged. In addition, as we discussed on our Q4 2020 earnings call, your employees working in industries hardest hit by the pandemic and lower overall turnover in those industries resulted in fewer annual forms, filings and adjustments. It is difficult for us to estimate the exact amount that those trends impacted us, but we don't believe it was dramatically different from our expectations. Total adjusted gross profit for the first quarter was $236.9 million, representing adjusted gross margin of 87%. For 2021, our target adjusted gross margin range is expected to remain strong at approximately 85% to 86%. Adjusted total administrative expenses were $118.8 million for the first quarter as compared to $108.4 million in the first quarter of 2020. Adjusted sales and marketing expense for the first quarter of 2021 was $59.3 million or 21.8% of revenues. We continue to be very pleased with our marketing strategy with another quarter of very strong demo leads, and we plan to continue to invest in marketing throughout the remainder of 2021. Adjusted R&D expense was $23.1 million in the first quarter of 2021 or 8.5% of total revenue. Adjusted total R&D costs, including the capitalized portion, were $34 million in the first quarter of 2021 compared to $27.6 million in the prior year period. We have been aggressively recruiting talent in R&D to drive our future growth through innovation and new product development. Adjusted EBITDA was $133 million in the first quarter of 2021 or 48.9% of total revenues compared to $117.9 million in the first quarter of 2020 or 48.7% of total revenues. We benefited from cost efficiencies in G&A, which we expect to continue throughout the year. We plan to continue to invest in the marketing and R&D. Our GAAP net income for the first quarter was $64.6 million or $1.11 per diluted share versus $63 million or $1.08 per diluted share in the prior year period based on approximately 58 million shares in both periods. Non-GAAP net income for the first quarter of 2021 was $85.9 million or $1.47 per diluted share versus $77.9 million or $1.33 per diluted share based on approximately 58 million shares in both periods. We expect noncash stock-based compensation for the second quarter of 2021 to be approximately $27 million to $28 million. For the full year, we anticipate noncash stock-based compensation will be approximately $105 million to $110 million. Turning to the balance sheet. We ended the first quarter of 2021 with cash and cash equivalents of $215.1 million and total debt of $30.5 million related to construction at our corporate headquarters. Cash from operations was $89.5 million for the first quarter, reflecting our strong revenue performance and the profitability of our business model. The average daily balance of funds held on behalf of clients was approximately $1.7 billion in the first quarter of 2021. Shifting to guidance. We have now substantially lapped the last pre-COVID year-over-year comparison, and our guidance for strong second quarter revenue growth represents a true reflection of the strong performance we achieved throughout 2020. We are pleased to be able to provide the following Q2 and full year guidance. For the second quarter of 2021, we expect total revenues in the range of $231 million to $233 million, representing a growth rate over the comparable prior year period of approximately 28% at the midpoint of the range. We expect adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter in the range of $80 million to $82 million, representing an adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 35% at the midpoint of the range. For fiscal 2021, we are raising our expected revenue range to $1.017 billion to $1.019 billion, up from $1.009 billion to $1.011 billion, or approximately 21% year-over-year growth at the midpoint of the range. We expect adjusted EBITDA in the range of $400 million to $402 million, representing an adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 39.4% at the midpoint of the range. To conclude, our strategy to mitigate the impact of the pandemic and grow the business has been working. And we will continue to focus on providing world-class service to our clients, rapidly developing new technologies and increasing the number of new clients added to our platform. We have a strong balance sheet, a profitable recurring business model and a long runway to deliver sustainable long-term revenue growth. With that, we will open the line for questions. Operator? 