  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the NXP first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jeff Palmer, senior vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Jeff Palmer -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Katherine, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to NXP Semiconductors' first quarter 2022 earnings call. With me on the call today is Kurt Sievers, NXP's president and CEO; and Bill Betz, our CFO. The call today is being recorded and will be available for replay from our corporate website. Today's call will include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause NXP's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, the macroeconomic impact on specific end markets in which we operate, the sale of new and existing products and our expectations for financial results for the second quarter of 2022. Please be reminded that NXP undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements. For a full disclosure on forward-looking statements, please refer to our press release.Additionally, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are driven primarily by discrete events that management does not consider to be directly related to NXP's underlying core operating performance. Pursuant to Regulation G, NXP has provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in our first quarter 2022 earnings press release, which will be furnished to the SEC on Form 8-K and is available on NXP's website in the investor relations section at nxp.com. I'd now like to turn the call over to Kurt. Kurt Sievers -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate you joining our call today, and I can tell you, after two years, finally, I do very much look forward to a series of in-person investor meetings through the rest of this week. Now let me begin with a review of our quarter one performance. Our revenue was $36 million better than the midpoint of our guidance with automotive, industrial, IoT and mobile at or above our guidance. So trends in the communication infrastructure markets were just slightly below our expectations due to supply issues. Taken together, NXP delivered quarter one revenue of $3.14 billion, an increase of 22% year on year. Non-GAAP operating margin in quarter one was a strong 35.7%, 480 basis points better than the year ago period and about 70 basis points above the midpoint of our guidance. Our results reflect strong execution with good operating leverage and profit fall through on higher revenue, improved gross profit and modestly lower operating expenses. Now let me turn to the specific trends in our focus end markets. In automotive, revenue was $1.56 billion, up 27% year on year, in line with our guidance. In industrial and IoT, revenue was $682 million, up 19% year on year better than our guidance. In mobile, revenue was $401 million, up 16% year on year better than our guidance. Lastly, Communication Infrastructure and other was $496 million, up 18% year on year just modestly below guidance as a result of ongoing supply changes. Overall, the demand in our strategic end markets continues to be robust, putting our customers' requirements in excess of our improved supply capability. And in that context, let me provide some data points of what we see in our daily engagements with our customers. In the distribution channel, which services about half of our total revenue, inventory remains stubbornly below our long-term targets.

 



 During quarter one, the months of supply in the channel was 1.5 months, which is about a month below our long-term target. And it is now the sixth consecutive quarter of an exceedingly tight supply situation in the channel. Internal inventory days continue to be below our long-term target of 95 days. In quarter one, DIO increased by six days with all of the increase in support of our growth outlook for the second quarter. Lead times across the board continue to be extended, with more than 80% of all of our products being quoted at 52 weeks or greater. Essentially, we are supply constrained for all of 2022. The level of inbound supply related customer escalations continues to be elevated across all focused end markets and regions. And lastly, let me zoom in on the trends we see in the automotive market. In the U.S., new car inventory at dealers is substantially below historic levels at 27 days versus the historic metric of 64 days. The pace to xEV vehicle penetration globally continues to rapidly accelerate hitting 19% of global production in 2021 and is expected to hit 23% penetration in 2022 and moving to 30% next year in 2023. With xEVs having roughly twice to semiconductor content, this is another strong secular tailwind to semiconductor content growth. The Ukraine war has disrupted predominantly European Tier 1 suppliers and OEMs with shortages of wiring harnesses. In China, the COVID-related shutdowns are creating yet another level of significant supply uncertainty. The extended auto supply chain continues to be very lean, with reported days of inventory at the Tier 1s and at the auto OEMs out of sync with each other. And lastly, based on our very frequent and detailed customer conversations across the supply chain, the Tier 1s and OEMs continue to be challenged by kitting issues to complete module and vehicle assemblies. These kitting issues are not due to one semi supplier or shortage of just one common golden screw device. Against all of this dynamic backdrop, our first quarter was a very good beginning to what we view will be a positive year for NXP. In the face of the loaded customer escalations and elevated lead times, we are proactively and relentlessly working with our customers to redirect material to assure that customers get what they need, where they needed and when they needed. And zooming out, customers have begun to much better appreciate and embrace the strategic value of semiconductors play in their long-term success both from an innovation as well as a supply perspective. Hence, as a result of our adaptability, the level of engagements with strategic customers is resulting in unprecedented levels of customer intimacy. Our engagements are unlocking new and significant long-term customer arrangements and cooperation that is closer than ever, which will enhance our relative market share over the longer term. Now let me turn to our expectations for quarter two. We are guiding revenue at $3.28 billion, up about 26% versus the second quarter of '22 within a range of up 22% to up 30% year on year. From a sequential perspective, this represents growth of about 4% at the midpoint versus the prior quarter. At the midpoint, we anticipate the following trends in our business: automotive is expected to be up in the low 30% range versus quarter 2, 2021 and up in the high-single digits range versus quarter one, 2022. Industrial and IoT is expected to be up in the low 20% range year on year and up in the low single digits range versus quarter one, 2022. Mobile is expected to be up in the low double-digit range year on year and down in the low single-digit range versus quarter one, 2022. And finally, communication infrastructure and other is expected to be up about 20% versus the same period a year ago and flattish on a sequential basis. Our guidance incorporates several items to be aware of. First, the year-on-year comparison of our auto business in the second quarter benefits from the easy compare versus quarter two, 2021 when we were impacted by the effects of the winter storms on our wafer manufacturing facilities in Texas. Second, our Tianjin back-end facility in China is fully running at maximum capacity. Remember, we lost about one to two weeks of output during the early part of quarter one. And lastly, our guidance does contemplate several tens of millions of dollars of potential supply and logistical disruptions due to the lockdowns occurring in China related to COVID outbreaks. Now before I pass the call to Bill, I would like to provide an update on our ESG journey, something our management team and I are personally committed to. On April 1, we published our annual corporate sustainability report, which included the achievement of several goals. On a year-over-year basis, we have reduced our normalized carbon footprint by 11% and have increased the use of renewable electricity in our facilities to 31% of our total consumption. Additionally, we have realized an 11% normalized decrease in our water consumption and 76% increase in our recycling efforts. These are all solid and positive steps, but I believe we can and should do more. Looking forward, we have committed to achieve carbon neutrality by 2035. We have formally committed in the science-based targets initiative, and we are transitioning toward 100% renewable energy sources in our facilities. This will all be a significant task for our organization, and we are committed to providing regular updates documenting our progress. From a global employee perspective, we grew by 8% during 2021, despite a difficult talent market and women now represent 37% of our total employee population. To keep the organization focused on the sustainability journey, I am proud to announce Jennifer Wuamett, our general counsel, has been named NXP's chief sustainability officer, and she will oversee our sustainability program. Finally, to demonstrate that we, as an organization, are all responsible to improve the impact we have in our environment, the NXP board has approved that a portion of our employee annual incentive compensation will be tied to achieving progress toward long-term sustainability goals. Now in summary, the robust growth we have anticipated for 2022 is materializing in spite of all supply challenges. We do continue to see strong customer demand, especially our company-specific accelerated growth drivers. Overall, demand continues to outstrip increased supply and inventory across all end markets remains very lean. And with that, I would like to pass the call over to you, Bill, for a review of our financial performance. Bill?Bill Betz -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Kurt, and good morning to everyone on today's call. As Kurt has already covered the drivers of the revenue during Q1 and provided our revenue outlook for Q2, I'll move to the financial highlights. Overall, our Q1 financial performance was very good. Revenue was $36 million above the midpoint of our guidance range and both non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP operating profit were near the high end of our guidance. Now moving to the details of Q1. Total revenue was $3.14 billion, up 22% year on year and above the midpoint of our guidance range. We generated $1.81 billion in non-GAAP gross profit and reported a non-GAAP gross margin of 57.6%, which is up 340 basis points year on year and both above the midpoint of our guidance range, driven by the improved utilization, higher revenue and positive product mix. Total non-GAAP operating expenses were $688 million or 21.9% of sales, up $88 million year on year and up $7 million from Q4, which was below our midpoint of guidance and below our long-term model. From a total operating profit perspective, non-GAAP operating profit was $1.12 billion and non-GAAP operating margin was 35.7%, up 400 basis points year on year and both at the high end of our guidance range, reflecting solid fall-through and operating leverage on the increased revenue levels. Non-GAAP interest expense was $103 million with cash taxes for ongoing operations of $122 million and noncontrolling interest was $9 million. Furthermore, our stock-based compensation, which is not included in our non-GAAP earnings was $89 million. Now I would like to turn to the changes in our cash and debt. Our total debt at the end of Q1 was $10.57 billion, flat sequentially. Our ending cash position was $2.68 billion, down $147 million sequentially due to capital returns and increased capex investments during Q1. The resulting net debt was $7.89 billion, and we exited the quarter with a trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA of $4.58 billion. Our ratio of net debt to trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA at the end of Q1 was 1.7 times, and our 12-month adjusted EBITDA interest coverage was 12 times. Turning to working capital metrics. Days of inventory was 89 days, an increase of six days sequentially. The increase in inventory was all in raw materials and work in process to support revenue growth and continues to be below our long-term target of 95 days. We continue to closely manage our distribution channel with inventory in the channel at 1.5 months, well below our long-term target. We anticipate the coming year will be very similar to 2021 where customer demand is in excess of incrementally improving supply. Days receivable were 27 days, down one day sequentially. Days payable were 93 days, an increase of six days versus the prior quarter as we continue to increase orders with our suppliers. Taken together, our cash conversion cycle was 23 days, an improvement of one day versus the prior quarter, reflecting strong customer demand, solid receivable collections and positioning for customer deliveries for future periods. Our working capital management and balance sheet metrics continue to be very strong. Cash flow from operations was $856 million and net capex was $279 million, resulting in non-GAAP free cash flow of $577 million. During Q1, we paid $149 million in cash dividends and repurchased $552 million of our shares. Overall, we returned 121% of our non-GAAP free cash flow back to the owners of the company, consistent with our capital allocation strategy. And again, the cash flow generation of this business continues to be excellent. Turning now to our expectations for the second quarter. As Kurt mentioned, we anticipate Q2 revenue to be about $3.28 billion plus or minus about $100 million. At the midpoint, this is up 26% year on year and up about 4% sequentially. We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be about 57.6% plus or minus 50 basis points. Operating expenses are expected to be about $720 million, plus or minus about $10 million, which is up about 5% sequentially, driven primarily by our annual merit increases. Taken together, we see our non-GAAP operating margin to be 35.7% at the midpoint. We estimate non-GAAP financial expense to be about $103 million and anticipate cash tax related to ongoing operations to be about $154 million or about 14.5% effective cash tax rate, consistent with what we communicated during Analyst Day of 15%. Noncontrolling interest will be about $13 million. For Q2, we suggest for modeling purposes, we use an average share count of 265 million shares. Finally, I have a few closing comments I'd like to make. First, as Kurt mentioned in his prepared remarks, we have attempted to derisk our Q2 outlook given the uncertain macroeconomic environment and the potential impact on our supply chain. Despite these potential risks, customer demand for NXP products remain very strong in the markets we serve. Secondly, from a revenue standpoint, we expect our second half revenue to be greater than our first half on an absolute basis, as we continue to work on improving supply. From a modeling perspective, think of a gradual quarterly improvement sequentially through the remainder of 2022. But this improvement is still well short of the demand signals we are seeing and constantly monitoring from our customers. Overall, we believe supply will remain constrained and challenging throughout 2022. Lastly, barring any significant supply disruption, we believe our gross margin should trend in a fairly tight range consistent with our performance in the first half of the year. We continue to see the business as generating strong cash flow, and we will continue to execute to our well-communicated capital allocation strategy consistent with past periods. With that, thank you, and we can now turn it over to the operator for questions. 