
OperatorWelcome to the Match Group Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Bill Archer, Head of Investor Relations and Corporate Development. Please go ahead.William Archer -- Investor RelationsThank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Today's call will be led by CEO, Shar Dubey; and CFO and COO, Gary Swidler. They will make a few brief remarks, and then we'll open it up for questions. Before we start, I need to remind everyone that during this call, we may discuss our outlook and future performance. These forward-looking statements may be preceded by words such as we expect, we believe, we anticipate or similar statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and our actual results could differ materially from the views expressed today. Some of these risks have been set forth in our earnings release and our periodic reports filed with the SEC.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Shar.Shar Dubey -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Bill. Good morning, and thank you for joining the call today. Gary and I are once again doing this from our offices here in Dallas. And while our offices are not fully open yet, we did resume some travel and in-person meetings in Q2 as the vast majority of our employees got vaccinated. And this optimism was also reflected in the sentiment of our users, particularly in the U.S. and parts of Europe. As a result, every one of our major brands grew revenue in Q2, collectively delivering 27% year-over-year growth. And we have solid momentum as we enter the second half of the year. As much as I'm ready for COVID to no longer be a topic of discussion, it does appear that we have to live with it for a little while longer.At the end of the day, widespread global vaccinations are really the only way out of this pandemic for us, which is why our brands have been particularly active these past few months collaborating with the White House in the U.S. and the governments in the U.K., France and Ireland on PSAs and vaccine information campaigns and even a summer rap hit about the vaccine. Turns out, daters are open to and are getting vaccinated at higher rates than the average population, which is certainly a very good thing. And vaccine badges have become a very attractive feature on many of our platforms. In recent weeks, we have been monitoring the surge of the Delta variant and the various restrictions in countries, particularly in Asia.We've learned a lot these past 16 months about the impact of case surges and restrictions to mobility, uncertainty driving new cycles, et cetera, on our metrics and business in various parts of the world. And our confidence in the continued resilience of our business is based on what we've seen. People around the globe have continued to turn to our products for conversations, flirtations, first video dates, real-life dates. And for me, one of the exciting things about this quarter was Tinder's product launches, which are part of an app experience transformation journey that, quite frankly, we haven't undertaken since its very early days. The team there is executing really well, carefully testing the building blocks of this transformation road map.It's been super encouraging to see the promising engagement metrics with these new products. And Tinder subscribers/payer additions in Q2 were among some of the highest we've seen, and this momentum has continued into July. In the second quarter, we also closed the Hyperconnect deal. And even though travel restrictions have prevented us from meeting in person, our teams have quickly mobilized to collaborate on a number of exciting potential synergies. Near term, our priorities to both -- are to both help calibrate and collaborate to drive profitable growth for Hyperconnect, Azar and Hakuna apps and lay out the broader strategy and road map for social discovery. We are also starting the work to roll out Hyperconnect's video, audio and AI technologies onto our platforms over the next several months.Longer term, there is much about this acquisition that excites us. We expect Asia Pacific will soon contribute over 20% of our overall revenue and still offers the biggest growth opportunity, given where the category awareness and penetration stands today. And Hyperconnect gives us a strong, talented team and footprint in the region. The more I learn about the AR, the conversational AI and other technologies their team and incubation lab has been working on, the more I'm excited about the ability to leverage this on our dating platforms to provide a richer, more akin to real-life experience online. Everything from self-expression to getting to know each other can be transformed. One of the Holy Grails for us in online dating has always been to bridge the disconnect that happens between people chatting online and then meeting someone in person.And these technologies will eventually allow us to build experiences that will help people determine if they have that much elusive chemistry or not. And so as I -- as we said in the letter, our ultimate vision here is for people to never have to go on a bad first date again. Finally, as part of our continuing journey as a fully independent company, we released our first Impact Report in Q2. I have always felt lucky to have spent much of my career at a company with such a fundamental and important social mission of bringing people together and helping them find dates and relationships and love and marriage.We've always been inspired by the success stories of our members, the millions of babies born and love that has been forged by our platforms. And in this annual report, in addition to the social work that we do, we are committed to sharing our performance on ESG metrics and progress in relevant impact areas, including the very important work to develop leading technology and solutions for online safety. I feel very good about where we are as a company, as a business. And I look forward to continuing to deliver on our vision and goals. And while the Delta variant surge is a reminder that we aren't fully out of the pandemic woods yet, we do have more data and understanding to be able to manage through it with agility.And with that, I will hand it over to Gary to talk more about the quarter.Gary Swidler -- Chief Operating Officer And Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Shar. It's great to be here again in person with you and the team in Dallas today. Seeing colleagues working together makes me very much look forward to days when the office will be filled with activity once again. We had a terrific Q2 with 27% year-over-year total revenue growth, the strongest growth the company has achieved since 2018. Non-Tinder brands grew direct revenue 28% year-over-year in the quarter, the sixth consecutive quarter where these brands grew in aggregate. Hinge, POF Live! and our BLK and Chispa apps continued to perform very well. Hinge grew revenue nearly 150% in the quarter driven by strength in both subscription and a la carte, led by Roses and Standouts. At Tinder, propensity to pay has improved significantly, which you can see in the a la carte revenue strength as well as overall payer numbers.Tinder saw a notable acceleration in year-over-year direct revenue growth to 26% in Q2, up from 18% year-over-year growth last quarter and 13% year-over-year growth in Q4 2020. Our direct revenue grew 25% in the Americas, 28% in Europe and 31% in APAC and Other. Our U.S. performance is exceptionally strong, and our performance in Europe is trailing slightly behind the U.S., consistent with the pace of the recovery there. APAC and Other growth also was solid in Q2. But a number of markets there, including important ones for us like Japan, are now facing increased COVID restrictions. Note that we are now disclosing the performance of the business in three geographic regions to give investors better insight into our results. Indirect revenue grew 54% year-over-year, marking a third consecutive strong quarter as the advertising market generally and our direct sales specifically were very strong.Also note that we closed the acquisition of Hyperconnect in mid-June, so our metrics reflect about two weeks of contribution. Net of certain onetime purchase accounting adjustments, Hyperconnect contributed $4.3 million of revenue in Q2. We have broken this information out in the shareholder letter, so you can see what Match Group ex Hyperconnect and what Hyperconnect itself delivered in Q2. We have also moved to disclosing payers and monthly revenue per payer. In the quarter, total payers reached 15 million, which was an increase of 15% from Q2 2020. Growth was strong in all geographies, up 16% year-over-year in the Americas, 13% in Europe and 17% in APAC and Other. Tinder payers were up 17% year-over-year in Q2. For comparison purposes, in Q2, average subscribers increased 1.3 million over the prior year to 11.4 million, representing 13% year-over-year growth.Tinder's average subscribers were up just under 1.1 million or 17% year-over-year and came in at 7.2 million in total. This was the best Tinder year-over-year subscriber growth since the pandemic began and was very strong sequentially as well. All other brand average subscribers were up 240,000 or six percent year-over-year. Revenue per payer increased 10% year-over-year to $15.46. It was up eight percent in the Americas, 13% in Europe and 12% in APAC and Other. RPP was up eight percent year-over-year at Tinder. RPP derived three percentage points of growth, $0.53, from foreign exchange impacts in the quarter. At Tinder, Platinum sales and strength in a la carte contributed to RPP growth. Continued strong performance of Plenty of Fish's live streaming business and Hinge's a la carte features contributed to the strength in RPP at the Established and Emerging Brands, respectively.Total company ARPU was up 10% year-over-year to $0.65. Non-Tinder brands ARPU growth was extremely strong again this quarter, up 16% year-over-year, and Tinder ARPU was up seven percent year-over-year. Operating income grew seven percent, and EBITDA grew 15% year-over-year in Q2. EBITDA margins were 37%. Net of purchase accounting adjustments, Hyperconnect reduced Match Group EBITDA by $3 million in Q2 from $266 million to $263 million. Overall expenses, including SBC expense, increased to 70% of revenue compared to 65% in Q2 2020 when we pulled back on spending as the pandemic took hold. Cost of revenue grew 30% year-over-year, impacted by higher IFPs, web hosting costs and fees related to live streaming video at Plenty of Fish.Sales and marketing spend was up $38 million or 42% year-over-year, close to what we had anticipated, and represented 18% of total revenue in Q2 as many of our brands spent into reopenings. Product development costs grew 24% year-over-year as we increased headcount at several brands, mainly Tinder and Hinge. G&A expense rose 66% year-over-year and comprised 16% of revenue. G&A in Q2 included $4 million of professional fees and $9 million of stock-based comp expense, both related to the acquisition of Hyperconnect. Our gross leverage declined to 3.9 times at the end of Q2, while our net leverage was 3.7 times as we used cash on hand for a portion of the consideration in the Hyperconnect purchase. We're pleased to see both gross and net leverage below 4 times, and we're on track for net leverage below 3 times by the end of 2021.For Q3, we expect total revenue from Match Group of $790 million to $805 million, which would represent 23% to 26% year-over-year growth. That's solid growth off what was a very strong Q3 2020 as daters emerged from the initial wave of lockdowns in North America and Europe and Asia had COVID under control. We expect EBITDA of $275 million to $280 million in Q3. This reflects an additional $15 million of costs in the second half of the year versus our prior expectations for government relations and other advocacy related to app store practices and for legal matters, including the former Tinder employee litigation as we prepare for a fall trial. We think plaintiff's claims in that case are totally without merit and are fully prepared to defend ourselves vigorously to the end. We currently expect that the trial will conclude by the end of the year, and the meaningful cost we've incurred related to this lawsuit should not recur beyond 2021.For the second half of the year, we expect Hyperconnect to contribute $125 million to $135 million of revenue. This outlook reflects some pullback primarily due to COVID as well as our decision to focus the Hyperconnect team on delivering video and other technology that we can implement across the rest of our portfolio. We expect at least two of our brands to make use of Hyperconnect technology before the end of 2021 and a number of others to implement Hyperconnect capabilities by year-end 2022. As a result of this focus on building tech that our other brands can use, we expect Hyperconnect to remain roughly breakeven from an EBITDA standpoint in Q3 and Q4 2021. For the company as a whole, we expect full year revenue of just above $3 billion, including Hyperconnect, exceeding the high end of our previously stated range.This reflects better-than-expected performance at our dating brands in the first half of 2021 and anticipate second half year-over-year growth north of 25%: approximately 20% at Tinder, single digits at the Established Brands and north of 100% at the Emerging Brands, including the contribution from Hyperconnect. From an EBITDA perspective, we now expect a range for the full year of $1.045 billion to $1.06 billion. This outlook incorporates Google's recent change in policy to enable our brands to opt out of mandatory in-app billing until at least March 2022. It also includes the previously mentioned additional legal costs and higher spend for government relations and advocacy to encourage the app stores to reduce their fees. We're increasingly confident that the lawsuits and investigations around the globe related to app store practices will result in changes to those policies in the not-too-distant future.We've had an outstanding first half of the year where we've accomplished a great deal. Tinder's growth has accelerated, and the product is evolving in exciting ways that we expect will present real revenue opportunities for us over time. Hinge and our other newer, established -- newer apps continue to exceed our expectations, and our more established brands are performing well. Importantly, our services are now more in demand than ever as people around the world seek social connection online, whether in the form of companionship, romance or love. With Hyperconnect, our portfolio is increasingly well positioned to deliver on our mission of connecting people, which we expect will enable us to continue to deliver strong results for our stakeholders.With that, I'll ask the operator to open the line for questions.