  OperatorGreetings and welcome to The Home Depot's first-quarter 2021 earnings call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Isabel Janci. Please go ahead.Isabel Janci -- Vice President-Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Christine, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to Home Depot's first-quarter 2021 earnings call. Joining us on our call today are Craig Menear, chairman and CEO; Ted Decker, president and chief operating officer; and Richard McPhail, chief executive president and chief financial officer. Following our prepared remarks, the call will be open for questions. Questions will be limited to analysts and investors. And as a reminder, please limit yourself to one question with one follow-up. If we are unable to get to your question during the call, please call our investor relations department at 770-384-2387. Before I turn the call over to Craig, let me remind you that today's press release and the presentations made by our executives include forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors identified in the release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Today's presentation will also include certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliation of these measures is provided on our website. Now, let me turn the call over to Craig. 

 



Craig Menear -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Isabel, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate you joining us on our call this morning. Fiscal 2021 is off to a strong start as we grew the business by over $9 billion compared to the first quarter of last year. Sales for the first quarter were $37.5 billion, up 32.7% from last year. Comp sales were up 31% from last year, and our U.S. stores had a positive comp of 29.9%. Diluted earnings per share were $3.86 in the first quarter, up from $2.08 in the first quarter last year. Our results this quarter were once again driven by broad-based strength across the business and geographies. All of our top 40 markets posted double-digit comps, while Canada posted comps above the company average, and Mexico posted double-digit comps. Both ticket and transactions were up double digits in the quarter. And as Ted will detail, we saw strong double-digit growth from both our Pro and DIY customers. We continue to effectively manage the outsized demand for home improvement products seen throughout most of last year despite disruptions in global supply chains that were further exasperated by port congestion during the quarter.

 



 We leveraged the scale of our supply chain and partnered with our vendors to maintain our in-stock positions and prioritized key SKUs in high-demand categories. While we continue to see strong level of engagement across our digital platforms, we saw more of our customers return to our stores. Sales leveraging our digital platforms increased approximately 27% versus the first quarter last year, and approximately 55% of online orders were fulfilled through a store. We continue to roll out new capabilities, such as mixed-cart selling from store, that remove friction for both our customers and associates. The mixed cart feature enables associates to more efficiently and effectively serve the total project needs for a customer as products from both the website and store can be added to a single transaction. We also continue to drive interconnected enhancements in other areas of the business to solve customer pain points. In tool rental, for example, we will soon expand our rent online pilot chainwide, enabling rent online, pick up in store capabilities for all 1,300-plus tool rental locations in the U.S. and Canada. This will enhance the experience for our busy Pro and DIY customers and complement additional investments we are making to expand our rental footprint and increase our assortment and delivery capabilities. We are focused on continuing to leverage the momentum of our strategic investments to further enhance the interconnected shopping experience. Our efforts will continue to support what we believe is our winning formula: deliver the best shopping experience in home improvement, extend our position as a low-cost provider with a relentless focus on productivity and be the most efficient investor of capital in home improvement. We believe this strategy will help us deliver returns by driving growth faster than the market in any environment. The build-out of our One Home Depot supply chain vision is a wonderful example of our strategy in action. Enhanced fulfillment capabilities will not only create a better customer experience, but they will also expand the breadth of our current opportunity set from both a product and customer standpoint. The ability to combine this growth potential with scale to create the low-cost network in home improvement is a formula that we believe delivers long-term value creation for our customers, supplier partners, and shareholders. During the quarter, we continued to build out our One Supply Chain vision by opening several new facilities, and we are very excited with the progress we continue to make on this key strategic priority. We have now been operating in this unprecedented demand environment for over a year and continue to align around a few key learnings: first, the investments we have made in the business over the past decade were the right ones; and second, they have enabled agility and flexibility to execute on critical business decisions in a challenging and dynamic operating environment. As a result, we have managed unprecedented levels of web traffic, record levels of product flow through our supply chain, all while improving customer service levels in our stores. These factors, coupled with our world-class associates and strong partnership with suppliers, have enabled us to meet outsized demand week after week. Our cultures remain our North Star as their decisions are anchored to some of our most important values: do the right thing and take care of our people. Our ability to continue investing for the future while also managing the most fluid environment in our company's history is a direct result of our associates and their extraordinary efforts. I want to close by thanking them for the many ways they continue to live our values by serving our customers, communities, and each other during these challenging times. With that, let me turn the call over to Ted.Ted Decker -- Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Craig, and good morning, everyone. I want to start by also thanking all of our associates and supplier partners for their commitment to serving our customers and communities. We continued to experience unprecedented levels of demand during the first quarter, with comps accelerating to more than 30% when compared to the first quarter of last year. This elevated demand and transportation headwinds are pressuring parts of the supply chain, but our teams continue to work together with our supplier partners to manage through these pressures. Moving to our comp performance during the first quarter. Thirteen of our 14 merchandising departments posted comps at or above 20%, led by our lumber and kitchen and bath departments. Our comp average ticket increased 10.3%, and comp transactions increased 19.1%. Similar to what we reported in our previous three quarters, the growth in our comp average ticket was driven by elevated project demand, customers trading up to new and innovative products, and continued inflation in many product categories, including lumber. This was another record-setting quarter for lumber prices. Let me give you an example of what that means for one of our core lumber SKUs. At the end of the first quarter last year, a sheet of seven-sixteenths OSB was approximately $9.55 As we exited the first quarter this year, that same sheet of OSB more than quadrupled in price to $39.76. Inflation from core commodity categories positively impacted our average ticket growth by approximately 375 basis points during the first quarter. Our interconnected retail strategy is resonating with our customers as evidenced by strong growth from both in-store and online transactions, and we are pleased with our ability to meet widespread demand across our selling platforms. As you heard from Craig, sales from our digital channels grew by 27% during the first quarter, which equates to more than 100% growth on a two-year stack basis. Big-ticket comp transactions or those over $1,000 were up approximately 50% compared to the first quarter of last year. We saw widespread big-ticket strength across our business, with notable outperformance in lumber, vinyl plank flooring in many of our installation services. From a customer standpoint, we saw double-digit growth with both our Pro and DIY customers. Growth with both customer groups accelerated during the first quarter, with Pro sales growth slightly outpacing DIY. Sales to our Pro customers continue to strengthen, posting the fourth consecutive quarter of accelerating growth and the best quarterly growth rate on record. Pros continue to tell us that project demand is strong, and their backlogs are growing. Shifting over to our DIY customers. The strong demand we saw during the back half of last year continued during the first quarter. From gardening to garage and organization, new and existing customers are engaging with home improvement. And during the quarter, we were also well positioned for the start of the spring selling season. We took decisive action earlier than usual to proactively lean into our inventory position. This paid off as spring began breaking across the country, and our associates were well equipped to service customers across key outdoor and garden categories. And the strength in gardening was more than just plants and shrubs. We posted a record quarter in categories like planters and hardscapes. Additionally, while outdoor categories exhibited significant growth during the first quarter, we've continued to see strong momentum with interior projects around the house. Interior projects like countertops, vanities, blinds, and home decor all showed significant growth in the first quarter. As we look forward to the rest of the year, we are focused on continuing the momentum we are seeing with our customers. We're particularly encouraged with the strong demand we're seeing from our Pro customers. And for our Pros, we know that brands matter. Brands like Milwaukee, Klein, and Carlon have significant market share in their respective categories and are trusted by our Pro customers to get the job done. Milwaukee recently expanded their powerful M18 battery platform to include a full line of cordless nailers that deliver pneumatic performance with no compressors, no gas cartridges, and rapid-fire rates to keep Pros productive. The M18 platform now features over 200 tools that are exclusive to The Home Depot and the big-box home improvement channel. And at a time when Pros are busier than ever, we are thrilled that we are the destination for Carlon's PVC electrical boxes and Klein Tools. These brands are two of the most widely used by electricians. We've enjoyed a long exclusive partnership with Klein, being first to market with their new and innovative products, and we are now the exclusive national partner of Carlon in the big-box home improvement channel. And while we don't know how the demand environment will ultimately unfold, as we look forward to the rest of the busy spring season, we feel great about our position, and we look forward to serving our customers, both in-store and online. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Richard.Richard McPhail -- Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President Thank you, Ted, and good morning, everyone. In the first quarter, total sales were $37.5 billion, an increase of $9.2 billion or 32.7% from last year. During the first quarter, our total company comps were positive 31%, with positive comps of 19.8% in February, 36.2% in March, and 34.3% in April. Comps in the U.S. were positive 29.9% for the quarter, with positive comps of 19.9% in February, 35.6% in March, and 32% in April. During the first quarter, all 19 of our U.S. regions, as well as Canada and Mexico, posted strong double-digit comps. In the first quarter, our gross margin was 34%, a decrease of approximately 10 basis points from last year. Mix pressure from higher lumber sales alone negatively impacted our gross margin by approximately 35 basis points. During the first quarter, operating expense as a percent of sales decreased approximately 390 basis points to 18.6%. We were pleased with our operating leverage during the first quarter as it reflects disciplined expense control, along with a couple of other expense items that I'd like to highlight. First, our operating leverage in the first quarter of this year reflects the impact of several one-time expenses that we incurred in the first quarter of 2020, including additional compensation and benefits to support our associates. These expenses were partially offset by underspend in other expense items in the first quarter of last year, notably payroll, as we worked to staff up labor to meet the surge in demand. Together, the net impact of these factors resulted in approximately 240 basis points of operating expense leverage during the first quarter of 2021. Second, during the first quarter of 2021, we incurred approximately $80 million of COVID-related expenses, which created approximately 20 basis points of operating expense deleverage. And lastly, our operating expense leverage during the first quarter also includes pressure from higher accrued bonus expense primarily related to our outperformance for our store Success Sharing program in store and field-based management bonuses for the first half of fiscal 2021. Our operating margin for the first quarter was 15.4%, compared to 11.6% in the first quarter of 2020. Interest and other expense for the first quarter increased by $26 million to $333 million due primarily to higher long-term debt levels than one year ago. In the first quarter, our effective tax rate was 23.9%, down from 24.4% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. Our diluted earnings per share for the first quarter were $3.86, an increase of 85.6% compared to the first quarter of 2020. During the quarter, we opened one new store in the U.S. and one in Mexico, bringing our total store count to 2,298. Selling square footage at the end of the quarter was 239 million square feet. At the end of the quarter, inventories were $19.2 billion, up $4.2 billion from last year. And inventory turns were 5.5 times, up from five times last year. Turning to capital allocation. Our long-term principles for how we think about deploying capital have not changed. First and foremost, we will invest in our business. During the first quarter, we invested approximately $525 million back into our business in the form of capital expenditures. And second, it is our intent to return excess cash to shareholders through a balanced approach of paying a healthy dividend and repurchasing shares. During the first quarter, we paid approximately $1.8 billion in dividends to our shareholders, and we returned approximately $4 billion to shareholders in the form of share repurchases. Our share repurchases during the first quarter partially reflect an elevated cash balance in 2020 when we paused share repurchases to temporarily increase our liquidity levels as we navigated the pandemic. Computed on the average of beginning and ending long-term debt and equity for the trailing 12 months, return on invested capital was approximately 45.1%, up from 40.8% in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. Moving to the broader demand environment for home improvement. The strong demand that we've seen for more than a year now has continued. During the first two weeks of May, on a two-year stacked basis, we've seen comps in the U.S. above 30%. Housing remains strong. Homeowners' balance sheets are healthy, and our customers continue to tell us that they are planning on spending on a variety of home improvement projects. With that said, we cannot predict how the external environment will evolve and how it will ultimately impact the consumer. We will continue to execute with flexibility and focus on what has driven our successful performance. Our relentless focus on the customer and our ability to remain flexible and agile has enabled us to serve our customers and to meet demand in this dynamic environment. Longer term, we remain committed to what we believe is the winning formula for our customers, our associates, and our shareholders. We intend to provide the best customer experience in home improvement. We intend to extend our position as the low-cost provider. And we intend to be the most efficient investor of capital in home improvement. If we do these things, we believe we will grow faster than our market, and we will deliver exceptional shareholder value. Thank you for your participation in today's call. And Christine, we are now ready for questions. 