  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Lam Research Corporation's December quarter 2021 earnings conference call. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Tina Correia, corporate vice president, corporate finance and investor relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.Tina Correia -- Corporate Vice President, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the Lam Research quarterly earnings conference call. With me today are Tim Archer, president and chief executive officer; and Doug Bettinger, executive vice president and chief financial officer. During today's call, we'll share our overview on the business environment, and we'll review our financial results for the December 2021 quarter and our outlook for the March 2022 quarter.

 



 The press release detailing our financial results was distributed a little after 1:00 p.m. Pacific Time this afternoon. The release can also be found on the Investor Relations section of the company's website, along with the presentation slides that accompany today's call. Today's presentation and Q&A include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the risk factors disclosed in our SEC public filings.Please see accompanying slides in the presentation for additional information. Today's discussion of our financial results will be presented on a non-GAAP financial basis, unless otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results can be found in the accompanying slides in the presentation. This call is scheduled to last until 3:00 p.m. Pacific Time. A replay of this call will be made available later this afternoon on our website. And with that, I'll hand the call over to Tim. Tim Archer -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Tina, and happy new year to all that are joining us today. Calendar 2021 was another year in which companies and our communities had to respond to significant challenges on many fronts. Lam's operations and results were impacted by the effects of COVID-19, labor shortages, freight and logistics cost escalation, and supply chain constraints. But I am proud and thankful for how Lam employees responded at every turn, with commitment and agility to support our customers and business. As the digital transformation of both the global economy and our everyday activities accelerated throughout the year, demand for wafer fabrication equipment continued to strengthen. Lam delivered record revenues and record earnings per share in calendar year 2021. Embedded in these results is record revenue in every area of our business, including NAND, DRAM, and Foundry/Logic, and within every subsegment of our customer support business. Even in a year with relatively higher Foundry/Logic spend versus Memory, we gained market share in both etch and deposition. As we close out 2021 and enter the new year, demand for Lam products has never been higher. Yet, as we have discussed in prior quarters, the global supply chain remains severely stressed at these unprecedented output levels. In the December quarter, unexpected shipment delays, primarily for components from a critical supplier, surfaced in the last two weeks of the quarter, leaving us with insufficient time for full recovery despite the diligent efforts of our supplier and our global operations team. The resulting shipment delays caused revenues to come in below the midpoint of our guidance range. Revenue for the tools that were impacted in December will be recognized in the March quarter. Looking into the first weeks of 2022, we see that supply challenges have broadened, with the COVID omicron surge adding further disruption to freight and logistics operations, as well as exacerbating skilled labor shortages. We also continue to encounter significant scarcity of certain components and parts, including semiconductors. As a result, our March quarter revenue levels will be limited by the output constraints of our global supply chain.

 



 And this is reflected in our guidance. We are aggressively working on the issues with our suppliers and believe we will see progressive improvement as we move through the next few quarters. Overall, for calendar year 2022, we expect to deliver strong across-the-board revenue growth. On the demand front, we are seeing continued momentum in wafer fabrication equipment spending. We believe that spending in calendar year 2021 ended consistent with the mid-$80 billion estimate we provided on our last call. Strength was broad-based, with NAND, DRAM, and Foundry/Logic all growing double digits. As we look to calendar year 2022, there are multiple themes underpinning our view for continued WFE growth, including powerful in-market demand trends, rising device complexity, strong semiconductor industry operating profitability, and regional government support and incentives. In end markets, the technology landscape continues to build, not only on the prevalent drivers of AI, IoT, the cloud, and 5G but also now, along another vector, as advances in virtual and augmented reality lay the groundwork for the metaverse over the coming decade. Immersive gaming experiences will be a primary driver of metaverse development and adoption, and I've spoken on prior calls about how advanced processors and memory devices for gaming are favorable for WFE demand due to both leading-edge performance requirements and semiconductor content growth. Across the semiconductor industry, we see more than 20 new fabs being built, and customers have already announced significant capex increases for the year. Consequently, we expect 2022 WFE spending to be in the $100 billion range, with strong growth across all segments. We believe that our performance in 2021 has strengthened our ability to win in the robust demand environment we see ahead. We launched innovative new etch and deposition products, gained market share in key technology inflections, and rapidly grew our installed base. On this last point, our customer support business group continues to exceed expectations. Our chamber count grew approximately 13% in calendar year 2021 to approximately 75,000 units. Our revenue per chamber, which we highlighted in our 2020 Investor Day as a key growth objective, increased nearly 24% year on year in 2021, or nearly twice the growth in chamber count. We expect calendar year 2022 to be another strong growth year for our CSBG business. Our large and growing installed base also adds immense value to our product innovation process. The high volume of wafers running on our installed base every day enables us to detect newly emerging challenges more quickly and accelerate our cycles of learning, both of which are critical in an era of increasing device and manufacturing complexity. On the product front, 2021 was a year of significant milestones for Lam. To highlight just a few, our Vantex dielectric etch system became the fastest ramping new etch product in Lam history. Built on our groundbreaking new Sense.i platform, Vantex helps customers reduce costs by enabling higher etch rates and improving fab footprint efficiency, while new process capabilities extend our technology leadership in high aspect ratio etch. We expect continued growth in Vantex shipments in 2022, with overall revenues from this product roughly doubling year over year. Our Vector DT product for backside deposition achieved process tool of record status at all customers for 3D NAND devices with more than 200 layers, further demonstrating our leadership in 3D scaling enablement. We achieved several important leading-edge wins with our selective etch, strip, and surface treatment solutions, including applications for gate-all-around in the Foundry/Logic customer and our first selective etch win in DRAM. As device complexity increases across Logic and Memory devices, the need for angstrom-level precision is driving greater adoption of Lam's selective etch solutions compared to conventional wet etch methods. This should enable selective etch revenues to double this year as customers adopt our innovative suite of products for current leading-edge applications, as well as for future device architectures. And finally, we increased our deposition market share with wins in critical bitline and spacer applications for RC reduction and are now qualified at all leading nodes for this application. To conclude, our product momentum and outperformance in our installed base business have put Lam in a great position to capitalize on the tremendous demand we see for wafer fabrication equipment. Our top priority is to alleviate the near-term supply constraints that have impacted our output capacity, our delivery predictability, and our financial results. With progress expected on this front over the next several months, we believe calendar year 2022 will be another outstanding period of growth for Lam. Thank you. And now, here's Doug to cover the financial results and our outlook.Doug Bettinger -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Great. Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining our call today during what I know is a very busy earnings season. Calendar year 2021 was a record year for Lam Research in many respects. We closed the year with revenue at $16.5 billion, which includes record levels of revenue for both our systems, as well as our CSBG businesses. We also delivered an all-time high for earnings per share, coming in at $32.46. I think it's important to point out that we had 59% growth in earnings per share over calendar year 2020, which outpaced the growth in revenue, which was at 39%. We ended the year, however, on a bit of a down point. As Tim spoke about, our revenue came in at the lower end of the guidance range due to supply chain issues that impacted us in the last two weeks of the December quarter. These delays, primarily from one supplier for critical parts, meant we were unable to recognize revenue for tools that we actually shipped to customers, totaling more than $200 million. You'll notice this is reflected in the increased level of deferred revenue on the balance sheet at the end of the December quarter of $1.46 billion. The vast majority of these parts have now shipped, and the full value of the tools will revenue in the March quarter. While we continue to increase the output capacity of our own factories, we're seeing a broadening out of headwinds from the global supply chain, which is impacting the somewhat soft March quarter revenue and gross margin guidance. These headwinds are partially omicron and labor-related, partially supply or scaling-related, and partially due to freight and logistics constraints. Our expectations are that the broader supply chain issues in the industry will persist for a while, and we'll exit the March quarter with incremental supply or shipment delays, potentially causing another growth of as much as $500 million in deferred revenue. I would just highlight that we often ship equipment to our customers on a modular basis, which accelerates deliveries and allows customers the ability to begin installation while waiting for the fully configured tool. As we get our suppliers caught up with our needs and these missing components shipped, these tools will revenue in future quarters. This is obviously a fluid situation right now. Let me now turn toward the details of our December quarter results. Revenue for the quarter came in at $4.23 billion, a slight decrease from the September quarter, but an increase of 22% from the same quarter a year ago. From a segment perspective, Memory represented 58% of systems revenues in the December quarter, down from the prior quarter level, which was 64%. The strength in Memory during the quarter was driven by investments in the DRAM segment, which increased both in terms of dollars, as well as percent concentration at 23% of systems revenue, versus 19% in the September quarter and 10% in the June quarter. The DRAM investments were primarily focused on the 1z and 1-alpha nodes. The NAND segment was 35% of our systems revenue, versus 45% in the prior quarter. We're seeing both capacity additions, as well as conversions across our NAND customers, with investments in 128 through 192-layer devices. We expect we'll continue to see a blend of additions and conversions as we go through calendar year 2022. Broad demand across both leading-edge and mature device nodes drove continued strength in the Foundry segment, with the December quarter representing 31% of our systems revenue, versus 25% in the September quarter. Multiple customers are investing in the segment to meet end demand drivers such as AI, IoT, cloud, and 5G, which is leading to significant unit growth and more silicon content in most technology devices. We've had another record quarter of systems revenue dollars in the Logic and other segment, which contributed 11% of systems revenue in the December quarter, which was consistent with the concentration in the prior quarter. Our customers are investing to meet the demand requirements in the market for microprocessors, image sensors, and heterogeneous silicon packaging technologies. Now, let's switch to the regional composition of our total revenue. The China region came in at 26% of total revenues. And while being the top region for December, it was down from the 30%-plus levels we've seen for the last few quarters. This was an expected outcome and is related to the timing of customer investments, China domestic customers, with the majority of the China regional revenue in the December quarter. The Korea and Taiwan regions also had solid investment activity, representing 25% and 18% of revenues, respectively, in the December quarter. The revenue for our installed base business, CSBG, was nearly $1.5 billion, which was 29% higher than the December quarter in calendar 2020 and approximately 8% higher sequentially. The continued strength of CSBG reflects a growing installed base of tools, customers operating at high utilization levels, as well as our ability to monetize the growing installed base by offering more value-added advanced service solutions. Each subsegment of CSBG hit a new record in the quarter. But I want to specifically call out our Reliant product line for achieving its 12th consecutive record quarter, delivering value to a growing specialty market across numerous customers. While the CSBG business can have quarterly fluctuations, we continue to see sustained and stable growth on an annual basis. Now, moving on to gross margin. The December quarter was 46.8% above the midpoint of the guidance range. The increase in gross margins came from a favorable customer and product mix due to shipment timing, as well as high field resource productivity due to greater customer installation activity. As we've discussed in the past, gross margins can fluctuate quarter to quarter due to overall business levels, along with customer and product mix. And I would just mention, we've got incremental negative cost impacts from the supply chain constraints that we discussed earlier that are negatively impacting the March gross margin guidance. Operating expenses for December were $627 million, an increase from the prior quarter amount of $586 million. The December quarter had higher variable compensation as we closed the calendar year, as well as additional research and development investments. We've added headcount in R&D to support our growing product portfolio, and we're focused on supporting our customers' ongoing technology roadmaps. December operating margin came in at 32% or approximately $1.4 billion. Our non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 11.9%, generally in line with our expectations. Looking into calendar year '22, we expect the ongoing tax rate to be in the low teens level. We continue to monitor potential tax changes under consideration in the United States. Given the uncertainty there, we have not yet reflected the impact of any changes in our financial modeling. And as we've discussed in prior calls, our tax rate may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Other income and expense came in for the quarter at $19 million in income. This amount is better than the prior quarter and resulted in income in the December quarter due to a gain in one of our venture investments that recently raised capital in the public offering. As we've noted in last quarter's earnings call, we did not include the estimated gain of approximately $50 million in our December quarter guidance, and the amount in the results that you're seeing was reasonably close to that forecast. This gain added 26% -- or, excuse me, $0.26 tax adjusted to earnings per share. And I just have you note that overall OI&E is subject to market-related volatility that could cause a difference from our typical run rate. We continued to buy back shares, with our focus on capital return. And in the December quarter, we repurchased approximately $430 million worth of stock. In addition, we paid $211 million in dividends during the quarter. For the calendar year, we allocated a total of $3.8 billion toward capital return, which was approximately 94% of free cash flow. During 2021, we reduced share count by more than 4 million shares at an average repurchase price of $593 per share. Diluted earnings per share for the December quarter was $8.53, and the diluted share count balance was slightly lower than the September quarter level, coming in at 142 million shares, which was in line with our expectations. Let me now shift to the balance sheet. Cash and short-term investments, including restricted cash, totaled $5.6 billion, up from the prior quarter level of 4.9 billion. We generated strong cash from operations in the December quarter of $1.4 billion, which was somewhat offset by the capital return activities that I just spoke about. Days sales outstanding was essentially flat, coming in at 73 days, compared to 72 days in the September quarter. Inventory turns were down slightly from the prior quarter level, coming in at 2.9 times, which was much -- pretty much as planned as we've grown inventory to increase the business volume. Noncash expenses for the December quarter included approximately $63 million for equity compensation, $62 million for depreciation, and $20 million in amortization. Capital expenditures in the December quarter were flat with September, coming in at $138 million. Capital expenditures are mainly focused on expansion activities, such as the silicon parts facility in Ohio and the Korea Technology Center that will be opening in the first half of 2022. We have 16,300 regular full-time employees at the December quarter -- at the end of the December quarter, which is an increase of approximately 900 people from the prior quarter. Our headcount growth was mainly in the factory and field organizations to support the growing output levels that we're seeing. Now, let's look at our non-GAAP guidance for the March 2022 quarter. We're expecting revenue of $4.25 billion, plus or minus $300 million. As we've discussed earlier, the guidance reflects our expectation for a higher level of shipment delays in the March quarter due to broadening out of supply chain constraints we're seeing. Customer demand is decently stronger than what we can currently supply. Backlog has grown for five consecutive quarters as we exited the December quarter. We're expecting gross margin of 45%, plus or minus 1 percentage point. Our guidance reflects a higher level of spending that we're incurring for managing the execution of the supply chain, as well as extra costs to secure critical semiconductor component parts. As we sit here today, I believe our gross margin will improve as we progress through the year. We're forecasting operating margins of 29.5%, plus or minus 1 percentage point; and finally, earnings per share of $7.45, plus or minus $0.75 based on a share count of approximately 141 million shares. We're widening our ranges out a bit due to the supply chain uncertainties that we're -- that we've discussed. As we start calendar year 2022, we're in the strongest investment year in the history of the semiconductor industry. It's important to note that the demand is clearly there. We are dealing with broadening out of supply chain constraints, which we know we're going to fix over time. We're laser-focused on addressing these supply challenges, and we're confident that we'll deliver improvements as we go through the year. We're in solid market share positions. We've gained further traction across all market segments in 2021, and we've got a robust and growing installed base business. Operator, that concludes Tim and my prepared remarks. We'd like to now open up the call for questions. 