  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Holly, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome you to the Ford Motor Company fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Lynn Antipas Tyson, executive director of investor relations.Lynn Tyson -- Executive Director of Investor Relations Thank you, Holly. Welcome to Ford Motor Company's fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. With me today are Jim Farley, our president and CEO; and John Lawler, our chief financial officer. Also joining us for Q&A is Marion Harris, CEO of Ford Credit.

 



 Today's discussions include some non-GAAP references. These are reconciled to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measures in the appendix of our earnings deck. You can find the deck, along with the rest of our earnings materials and other important content, at shareholder.ford.com.Today's discussion also includes forward-looking statements about our expectations. Actual results may differ from the stated. The most significant factors that could cause actual results to differ are included on Page 30. Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons are year over year. Company EBIT, EPS and free cash flow are on an adjusted basis. Product mix is volume-weighted. A quick update on our near-term IR events. On Tuesday, February 8, John Murphy from Bank of America will host a fireside chat with John Lawler and Kumar Galhotra, who is president, Americas and international markets group. On Wednesday, February 23, Jim Farley will participate in a fireside chat with Rod Lache at the Wolfe Global Auto, Auto Tech and Mobility Conference. And on Thursday, February 24, Bob Holycross, our vice president, sustainability, environment and safety engineering; and Dave Webb, Ford's treasurer, will participate in the RBC Global Environmental, Social and Governance Conference. Now I'll turn the call over to Jim Farley. 

 



Jim Farley -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Lynn. Hello, everyone. Well, some may have described 2021 as a breakthrough year for Ford, I would simply portray it as a year of important progress for the company. We strengthened our base business last year and now expect to deliver even stronger results this year. And just as critical, we started moving with real speed and ambition to build a modern Ford. Our true breakthroughs are still ahead of us, like rapidly scaling production of our popular new battery electric vehicles, like turning Ford Pro a new growth engine for our commercial customers businesses and ours, like building our intelligent software platform to revolutionize our customers' experience. Even with the recent momentum, I know some observers may remain skeptical that a 118-year-old company like Ford will emerge as a winner in these disruptive times in our industry. And I'm OK with that. We're going to compete like a challenger, speak with our actions, prove ourselves over time. So let's dive into last year. As I mentioned, we have significantly improved our base business. In North America, our largest market, we have a very hot portfolio of new vehicles.

 



 We've now won awards of North America Truck and Utility of the Year for two years running. That's never happened by any company. The new Bronco, the Bronco Sport, the Maverick, the Mustang Mach-E, all of them, brand-new name plates for our lineup, all of them kits. Last month, we launched E-Transit. In the spring, we're in the middle of launching F-150 Lightning. Few people ask us any more about why we phased out sedans, and many more asking when they could take delivery of the new Bronco or Maverick or Lightning. So we're doing everything we can in our powers to increase our production and break constraints. We don't like making our customers wait, and we're taking action to ensure that they don't pay unreasonable markups. We've also made progress outside of North America, and this is very important. Ford has been a one-legged stool for too long. We stayed in Europe and South America and other regions because we really believe we can create sustainably strong businesses in those markets. And we want to serve these customers with better, more connected and electric products and services. The deep restructuring in Europe and South America have put us in a position to grow profitability going forward. In China, we're now set up to play a much bigger role in the EV boom going on there. We've quietly grown Lincoln into a strong contender in the world's largest luxury vehicle market. In fact, China is now the No. 1 Lincoln market globally. Our international markets group is profitable, and we're now preparing for the important launch of our next-generation Ranger pickup this year. While we remain in the teeth of the COVID crisis and semiconductor shortages, our overall business is still in great shape. And at the same time, we're rapidly making progress on key aspects of the Ford+ plan. And for customers, that means more distinctive products and solutions, more always on relationships with our brands and adding ever-improving user experiences. Now to deliver these things, we're building new muscles, and that certainly includes scaling up our production of electric vehicles, as I mentioned. We under-called the demand for our first wave of EVs. The Mustang Mach-E, the E-Transit, the F-150 Lightning. In the past six months, we doubled our 2023 planned capacity for EVs to 600,000 units a year. Now this required everything, from working with SK and LG to increase battery supplies to knocking down walls at our Rouge Electric Vehicle Center, while the mortar was still wet to make room to improve and build more Lightnings. Our team knows how to scale manufacturing, and we're now harnessing that capability to ramp up production of EVs. We also have a task force dedicated to lowering the bill of materials for our bets, above and beyond just the usual decline in material costs. For example, on Mustang Mach-E, in just the last month, our team found $1,000 of opportunity per vehicle. And that's delivered through design simplification, vertical integration and leveraging our scale with supply chain as we ramp up production. And that team is just getting started. We plan to take full advantage of our first-mover position in the fully electric pickup truck market, starting with Lightning. But there's much more to come. In the coming months, we'll break ground on the BlueOval City electric truck plant in Tennessee. It will be the largest, the most advanced manufacturing complex in our history, and it will produce Ford's second generation of a full-sized electric pickup in high volumes starting in 2025. And at the same time, we have three large-scale battery plants in Tennessee and Kentucky, which will be coming on stream with capacity to produce enough battery cells for more than 1 million vehicles a year. This is in addition to our battery sourcing in China and Europe. We are well on our way to achieve at least a 40% mix of BEVs by 2030, with strong margins and equal to our higher market share in the key high-profit, high-volume segments we compete. For example, the F-150 Lightning, if we had full production today to meet our current demand, we would rival the Model Y as the leading BEV nameplate in the U.S. market. We can't grow a profitable BEV business without a very healthy ICE business. And to do this, we're reducing complexity everywhere while increasing leveraging the benefits of our connectivity. Now this includes things like fewer top hats guided by customer demand and a judicious approach to vehicle content based on deep insights generated from that same vehicle data. We're also being disciplined with capital as we deploy that to our ICE products, recognizing that as a mix of BEVs increases, we will continue to manufacture ICE vehicles but with a focus on optimizing cash returns. So our goal is to continue to improve our automotive EBIT margins. Let me say that again. Our goal is to continue to improve our auto EBIT margins even as we ramp up the mix of BEVs. In 2021, we began to bring our vision of an always on experience for retail and commercial customers to life. Our customers are realizing the benefits of our over-the-air software updates. But that's just the beginning. We're using our hubs in places like Palo Alto to attract more and more great software engineers and technology specialists. And we're fundamentally changing the culture of engineering inside Ford. The hardware will always be important, but the software and the embedded systems will define the next generation of our vehicles' experiences. I think, customers will be amazed at the benefits as we move to central compute rather than the distributed compute we have across all the supplier-provided modules today. Our human-centered interface professionals are now in one single organization, with authority over the in-car digital experiences, interfaces, screens and controls. And we're committed to providing an environment where software engineers can do the very best work of their careers. Before I turn it over to John, let me close, the velocity of change at Ford is increasing. We're not seeking half measures. Fear of change and risk has never served legacy automakers well in the past couple of decades. We're done with incremental change. We have a clear plan, a bias fraction and whatever-it-takes mindset. We're confident our strong base business will generate the capital we need to fund a very exciting future. We're recruiting incredible talent from outside the company to work with the best people from Ford. As excited as our customers are for that great portfolio we have in the market today, we can't wait to show them what's coming in the future. Now I'll turn it over to John who will take you through the results for the quarter and our expectations for this year.John Lawler -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jim. In the face of ongoing challenges with semiconductor constraints and industrywide supply chain disruptions, we executed our Ford+ plan, including closing out our global redesign, strengthening our product portfolio and investing in exciting new opportunities fundamental to growth and value creation. For the year, we posted $10 billion in adjusted EBIT with a margin of 7.3%. That's our strongest performance since 2016. We delivered right at the midpoint of our guidance range, adjusting for the reclass of our first quarter Rivian game to a special item. And despite a 6% decline in wholesale, our automotive business posted its strongest EBIT margin since 2016. North America delivered an 8.4% EBIT margin and is firmly on the glide path to a 10% EBIT margin. In addition, our operations outside the U.S. collectively posted their best results since 2017. I'm very proud of the team's hard work, the resiliency last year as we rose to the challenge and optimized constrained production to protect customer orders, new launches, our electrification strategy and our most profitable vehicles. We also remain highly disciplined with our incentive spend and mix management, which, combined with improvement in warranty costs, more than offset commodity headwinds and supply chain-related production losses. Ford Credit, whose profits and dividends are an important source of capital for us, delivered a strong year. EBT was $4.7 billion as auction values were at record highs and credit losses were near record lows. Free cash flow was $4.6 billion, and we ended the year with strong cash and liquidity, more than $36 billion and $52 billion, respectively, which now includes our stake in Rivian valued at $10.6 billion at the end of the year. In 2021, we continue to advance our capital strategy given the improvements we're seeing in the underlying business. We reinstated the regular dividend at $0.10 per share in the fourth quarter as we continue to focus on creating value for our shareholders. We also further strengthened our balance sheet by repurchasing $7.6 billion of high-cost debt, deleveraging the balance sheet and significantly reducing our ongoing interest expense. We introduced the industry's first fully integrated sustainable financing framework, covering both an auto OEM and its captive finance company. And in November, following the launch of the framework, we completed our inaugural $2.5 billion green bond issuance, which was met with incredible investor demand and will help fund our exciting BEV portfolio. Our strong balance sheet, including cash, provides a solid foundation to continue to invest in our Ford+ priorities. So let me briefly touch on the fourth quarter. With a margin of 5.4%, adjusted EBIT was $2 billion, and we generated $2.3 billion in free cash flow. Some modeled stronger EBIT for us in this quarter. We know that was largely driven by higher volume expectations relative to the 10% sequential increase we guided to in October and lower corporate other expenses. North America delivered $1.8 billion of profit with a margin of 7.1%. Volume was up 10% on a sequential basis as supply chain constraints eased and custom demand for our products remained strong. South America delivered a modest profit for the second consecutive quarter, and the business is now set up to deliver sustainable profitability. With restructuring of the legacy business complete, the region is now focused on strengthening Ford's position in the truck market, growing its new commercial vehicle business and enriching customer experiences. In Europe, the underlying trajectory of our business continues to accelerate toward a 6% EBIT margin. However, the adverse effect of near-term supply chain disruption continues to mask that improvement. Importantly, we were the No. 1 commercial vehicle brand in Europe for the seventh consecutive year, and transit continues to have an extremely healthy order bank. Mustang Mach-E sales in the region are off to a strong start, with the order bank building momentum as we accelerate the transition to BEV. In China, Lincoln continues to be a real bright spot and gain share in the highly profitable and growing premium segment. In the fourth quarter, we achieved record sales of the brand in China, contributing to an almost 50% increase for the year. We are expanding the Lincoln portfolio in 2022 with the launch of the all-new Zephyr. The order bank for that vehicle opened recently and is off to a fast start. In the fourth quarter, we also achieved an important electrification milestone in China as we began local production and customer deliveries of the Mustang Mach-E. Our direct-to-customer model for Mach-E allows people to order online and through 25 Ford select city stores. Our international markets group performed well in the fourth quarter and had a record year playing to its strengths, especially from our flagship Ranger pickup, which delivered full year segment share of 14.9%, up 1.1 percentage points year over year. We also announced major investments in both South Africa and Thailand to modernize production and launch the next-generation Ranger from four assembly plants later this year. And in mobility, we've made steady progress toward the scaled commercialization of moving people and moving goods, and we are confident in Argo's progress in delivering a Level 4 autonomous vehicle solution. And in addition, we are rationalizing our investment portfolio and focusing on autonomous development. Now I'll share with you our current thinking about 2022. We expect supply constraints to remain fluid throughout the year, reflecting a variety of factors, including semiconductors and COVID. Based on what we see now, we believe our full year wholesales will be up about 10% to 15% in 2022, with a high single to low digit decline in the first quarter, reflecting supplier shortages related to Omicron shutdown and semiconductors. For the full year, we expect to earn between $11.5 billion and $12.5 billion in adjusted EBIT, and that's up 15% to 25% versus 2021. And the high end of the range equates to an adjusted company EBIT margin of 8% and our North America business at 10% EBIT margin, which, if we achieve, would be one year earlier than the target we shared with you last May. Now turning to GAAP results for a minute. It's important to point out that each quarter, we will mark-to-market our investment in Rivian, which sits in cash and marketable securities on our balance sheet. This is not something we can forecast. The mark-to-market may cause volatility in our quarterly GAAP, net income and EPS results. So looking at how our adjusted EBIT guidance rolls up. Our range assumes significantly higher profits in North America and collected profitability outside of North America as we realize the full benefits of our global redesign efforts. We also expect Ford Credit EBT to be strong but lower than 2021 profits, and we expect mobility and corporate other EBIT to be roughly flat. Lastly, we expect to generate adjusted free cash flow of between $5.5 billion and $6.5 billion. Now other assumptions we factored into our guidance include: first, we expect customer demand enthusiasm to remain strong for our new and iconic nameplates. We will have a full year of production of the award-winning Bronco and Maverick in addition to a robust BEV lineup with Mustang Mach-E, E-Transit and F-150 Lightning, all in production. Second, with wholesales up about 10% to 15%, we anticipate the pricing environment to remain strong, although the interplay between volume and pricing will remain dynamic. Third, we expect commodity headwinds of about $1.5 billion to $2 billion. Fourth, we anticipate other inflationary pressures, which will impact a broad range of costs. And fifth, at Ford Credit, we expect auction values to remain strong in 2022 as supply constraints persist. However, as I mentioned, we anticipate lower EBT reflecting primarily nonrecurrence of reserve releases, fewer returned off-lease vehicles and more normalized credit losses. Most importantly, we're committed to our Ford+ plan, and we'll continue to invest aggressively to drive growth and value creation. This includes devoting resources to customer-facing technology, connectivity, our always on relationships with customers and electrification. We are confident the long-term payback from those investments will be substantial. So that wraps up our prepared remarks. We'll use the balance of the time to hear and address what's on your mind. Thank you. Operator, please open the line for questions. 