
OperatorGreetings. Welcome to CBRE's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to Kristyn Farahmand, Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Thank you. You may begin.Kristyn Farahmand -- Vice President of Investor Relations & Corporate FinanceGood morning, everyone, and welcome to CBRE's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Earlier today, we issued a press release announcing our financial results which is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website, cbre.com, along with a presentation slide deck that you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks as well as an excel file that contains additional supplemental materials. Separately, we also announced some changes to our leadership team, appointing Emma Giamartino as Global Group President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Investment Officer; and Vikram Kohli as Global Group President, Business Intelligence. Before we kick off today's call, I'll remind you that this presentation contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Examples of these statements include our expectations regarding CBRE's future growth prospects, including 2021 qualitative outlook and multiyear growth framework, operations, market share, capital deployment strategy, M&A and investment activity, financial performance, including profitability, expenses, margins, adjusted EPS and the effects of both cost savings initiatives and the COVID pandemic, the integration and performance of acquisitions and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical fact. We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained on this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. You should be aware that these statements should be considered estimates only and certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. For a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact these forward-looking statements, please refer to this morning's earnings release and our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, respectively. We have provided reconciliations of adjusted EPS, adjusted EBITDA, net revenue and certain other non-GAAP financial measures included in our remarks to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, together with explanations of these measures in the appendix of this presentation slide deck. Our agenda for this morning call will be as follows. First, I'll provide an overview of our quarterly financial results. Next, Bob Sulentic, our President and CEO, will provide insight on our Q2 performance, the recently announced Turner and Townsend transaction and today's senior leadership changes. Following Bob's remarks, Emma will discuss the quarter in detail, along with our revised qualitative outlook for 2021, our capital deployment activities and broader investment strategy. Then we'll open up the call for questions. Now please turn to Slide 4, which highlights our second quarter 2021 results. Total revenue grew about 20% to a new second quarter record of nearly $6.5 billion, while grew 31% to $3.9 billion, partially driven by a strong rebound in property builds and to a lesser extent, leasing as well as favorable foreign currency effects. The quarter also saw tangible benefit from last year's transformation initiatives, which have improved our cost structure and operational agility. Adjusted EBITDA grew 169% to $718 million, surpassing Q2 2019 total by 53%. Overall, adjusted EPS grew 291% to $1.36, while GAAP EPS rose 437% to $1.30. Compared with Q2 2019, these metrics were up 68% and 98%, respectively. Both adjusted and GAAP EPS in the prior year second quarter included a $0.10 headwind from incremental COVID related costs and a terrible contribution to COVID relief efforts. Additionally, certain venture capital investments contributed $0.02 to GAAP and adjusted EPS this quarter. The fact, all key financial metrics significantly surpassed to Q2 2019 levels is a testament to the resiliency of our business and the actions we have taken to create a business primed to deliver scalable and enduring growth. Now for deeper insights, please turn to Slide six for Bob's remarks. Bob?

 



Robert E. Sulentic -- President, Chief Executive Office & DirectorThanks, Kristen, and good morning, everyone. As you've seen from the results, Kristen just summarized, CBRE continues to benefit from the multiyear efforts to diversify our business across four dimensions: asset type, business line, client type and geography. We've moved decisively to capitalize on this opportunity and are making investments and driving organic growth initiatives that will continue this trend. Overall, Q2 2021 adjusted EBITDA grew at a better than 20% compounded rate from Q2 2019 with strong growth across all three business segments. Each segment experienced significant margin expansion over this 2-year period due to our disciplined expense management, along with the benefits of diversification. Thoughtful investments, shaped by a well-developed strategy, will play a central role as we continue to grow and diversify our business across asset type, business line, client type and geography. Our balance sheet was very strong going into COVID and has strengthened further as we emerge from the pandemic. We are putting some of this balance sheet capacity to work with a particular focus on investing in secularly favored companies that enhance our ability to provide clients with customized solutions and will benefit from a relationship with CBRE. You saw this earlier this year when we acquired a 40% ownership interest in industrious in the flex space arena. And again, this month with our SPACs sponsorship of Altus Power in the commercial and industrial solar energy sector. On Tuesday, we announced a $1.3 billion purchase of a 60% stake in Turner & Townsend, a global leader in project program and cost management. This is a great brand and great management team operating in sectors with favorable long-term growth profiles. Turner & Townsend will advance diversification across the four dimensions of our business that we've been discussing. For example, across asset types, Turner & Townsend brings us capabilities in infrastructure and green energy where they can help support our efforts to meet our clients' carbon reduction goals. They are the global leader in cost consultancy, a line of business where we have a small practice now. Geographically, they move our project management business into new markets in Asia and the Middle East, while we can help them grow in the Americas and elsewhere, and they add an array of new clients around the world, most notably in the government sector. We look forward to hitting the ground running with Turner & Townsend when the transaction closes later this year. Before concluding, I'll briefly comment on the leadership changes we announced this morning. Over the past several years, we've evolved our senior leadership team dramatically, identifying our most compelling executives and putting them in roles where they can have the greatest impact on our business. The elevation of Emma Giamartino and Vikram Kohli, the Global Group President roles represents another step in this direction. Consolidating our capital investment and finance functions under Emma reflects the growing importance of capital allocation to the long-term growth aspirations that we outlined at the end of last year. She has proven to be an accomplished investor of our capital, who has an exceptional ability to work effectively with our leaders around the world to execute our capital strategy. Vikram has rapidly emerged as a leader with a unique ability to harness data and insight from across our business as well as from external sources. And like Emma he has excelled at working across our global platform. Adding our strategy and digital and technology functions to his mandate will create a business intelligence capability that will better enable us to make powerful fact-based decisions as we guide the company's growth. Vikram is the first Seabury executive from outside the U.S. to ascend to this level in the company. We expect to elevate other executives from outside the U.S. into senior global leadership roles as we continue to put our best talent into key positions. Leah Stearns will remain with us through year-end to ensure a smooth transition of financial leadership responsibilities. I want to thank Leah for her vision in initiating the transformation of our finance organization. Managing finance through the worst of the COVID-19 crisis and together with Kristen taking our Investor Relations program to a new level, including articulating the financial framework for our long-term growth aspirations. We wish Leah continued success. With that, I'll turn the call over to Emma.Emma E. Giamartino -- Global Group President, Global Group President, CFO & Chief Information Officer. Thanks, Bob. It's a pleasure to be speaking with you all today, and I look forward to regularly engaging with you in my new capacity as CFO. With that, please turn to Slide 8. Advisory Services net revenue and segment operating profit set new second quarter records rising 47% and 130% versus Q2 2020. Notably, they surpassed our previous Q2 2019 peaks by 3% and 18%, respectively. While leasing revenue climbed 33% compared to the prior year, it was about 18% below Q2 2019 levels, mostly due to subdued America's office leasing. Overall leasing revenue rose year-over-year by 26% in the Americas, 61% in EMEA and 40% in APAC. Americas performance was about 28% below Q2 2019, while EMEA and APAC were about 21% and 14% above. We are encouraged to see recent improvements in America's leasing with July thus far up significantly compared to both 2020 and 2019. As expected, property sales improved markedly with revenue growing 152% from the prior year period. Americas, EMEA and APAC property sales revenue serves 158%, 132% and 151%, respectively. All regions eclipsed our Q2 2019 level with total property sales revenue about 27% above Q2 2019. The macroeconomic backdrop is part of the real estate investment and global capital migration continues to steadily improve. Rising property sales also helped to catalyze strong growth in commercial mortgage originations, which climbed to 61%. We saw particularly strong demand for acquisition and construction financing and recapitalization. Our loan servicing portfolio grew 20% versus prior year and 3% sequentially to over $294 billion, partially driven by strong retention of loans brokered and originated. This led to loan servicing revenue growth of over 15% compared to Q2 2020. Valuation revenue accelerated over 37% as transaction-related work picked up. Activity is particularly strong in the U.S., the valuation revenue increased nearly 47%. Finally, Property Management net revenue increased over 6%. EMEA and APAC grew strongly, while Americas lagged due to previous decision to exit some low-margin contracts. Moving to Slide 9. Global Workplace Solutions continued its long record of resilient growth with net revenue rising 11%. This reflected strong growth in project management, up 15% and Facilities Management up 10%, driven by elevated local facilities management and data center assignments as well as the benefit of favorable foreign currency translation. Segment operating profit rose over 33%, reflecting solid top line growth, disciplined cost management, the benefit of a mix shift to higher-margin work and the impact of last year's transformation initiative, which more than offset increased medical expense. Even accounting for about $17 million of transitory COVID-related expenses in last year's Q2, segment operating profit growth was up 18%. Importantly, our new business pipeline continues to be strong and well diversified with a high concentration of life sciences, logistics and technology companies, along with new data center activity. Turning to Slide 10. Our Real Estate Investments segment generated over $153 million of segment operating profit, surpassing its previous quarterly high by $38 million. Impressive development operating profit of nearly $120 million was fueled by large office property sales that commanded strong valuations due to the high quality of the assets and tenancy. Importantly, our pipeline and in-process portfolios both set new highs this quarter, rising to $9.6 billion and $15.2 billion, respectively. This growth was largely driven by fee-based office and industrial work for blue-chip occupier clients. Investment Management revenue grew 35% to $139 million fueled by a 29% increase in asset management fees, higher acquisition and disposition fees, carried interest and favorable FX translation. Assets under management rose 18% versus the prior year to a new record of more than $129 billion. Stepping up the growth of this business has been a strategic focus, and we're pleased with our progress. The strong top line growth, coupled with careful expense management, drove operating profit growth of 38%. Lastly, Hana's operating loss narrowed sequentially to $9 million. We expect a further narrowing of this loss going forward as all Hana sites are now operated by Industrious, and all Hana sites except for four legacy units are now owned by Industrious. The future financial impact of our Industrious estate, which will be mark-to-market as the value changes will be reflected in Advisory. On Slide 11, we'll look at our new qualitative outlook for the year. We now expect full year Advisory sales and leasing revenue on a combined basis will likely approach 2019 levels with sales likely to moderately exceed prior peak and leasing likely to be roughly 15% or so shy of peak. We anticipate year-over-year sales and leasing revenue growth rates will likely moderate as we move further into the second half of the year when year-over-year comparisons will be tougher than in Q2 when activity last year was at a virtual standstill. As noted previously, Q3 leasing is off to a strong start, and we continue to monitor the potential Delta variant impact on transaction volume. We've learned over the past 15 months that office leasing is highly correlated with companies return into the office. Given this, as we started to see some U.S.-based companies modestly delayed return to office states, we believe there is a potential for this to impact the strong recovery we've seen quarter to date. Across the rest of our Advisory business, we expect revenue to rise in the low double-digit range versus the high single-digit growth we anticipated previously. We also expect our more robust Advisory revenue projections will flow through into incremental margin expansion relative to our previous expectations. Moving to GWS. We are modestly raising our expectations for segment operating profit while maintaining our revenue forecast in the high single-digit range. Net revenue is expected to slightly exceed this range. We're benefiting from a shift in service mix and exemplary cost discipline. As a result, we now expect GWS segment operating profit to grow at around the high teens rate this year, a slight improvement from our previous expectations. Our updated GWS expectations include some incremental operating expense investments in the second half and do not include any benefit from our announced Turner and Townsend transaction. Looking at REI, we expect this this segment nearly doubled 2020's record higher profitability. In Investment Management, we expect revenue to surpass $500 million and profit to rise at least at a high teens rate from the $140 million achieved in 2020. We project development operating profit to more double versus 2020 and to roughly triple its 2019 contribution of $122 million. We are developing products in strong markets and sectors with supportive fundamentals, we have a solid pipeline for asset monetization. This is expected to translate into Q3 operating profits that are likely to be at least as high as Q2. Given the robust pipeline and in-process activity, we are optimistic about the long-term trajectory of this business and expect it to be a meaningful contributor to our long-term growth. Consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin on net revenue should significantly exceed the level achieved in 2019, even though we expect a modest uptick in corporate expenses as compared to that year. The return of high-margin sales revenue, the effects of last year's transformation initiatives and strong development gains are drivers of the improved outlook. Overall, we now project our 2021 adjusted EPS to surpass our 2019 pre-pandemic peak of $3.71 by a wider margin than we expected at the end of the first quarter. As usual, we will realize more than half of our earnings in the second half. But given our year-to-date performance, those earnings will be slightly more weighted to the first half than they have been in most years. Flipping to Slide 12. Over the last year, we've allocated about $2 billion in total, including about $1.9 billion for capital expenditures, investments in sponsorships and partnerships and M&A inclusive of our pending Turner & Townsend transaction while returning cash to shareholders by buying back approximately $88 million of shares. Still, net leverage remains modest at just 0.2 times pro forma for the expected closing payment of the Turner & Townsend transaction. We have significant capacity to invest in growth and diversification using our four-pronged investment approach consisting of sponsorships, partnerships, acquisitions and building our own resources and capabilities. Our strong balance sheet, coupled with the strategic moves we've made over the last year and market leading mission give us great confidence that we can deliver compelling and scalable growth for years to come. Looking ahead, we believe we are firmly on track to achieve the growth aspirations we outlined in February, at least low double-digit average annual earnings growth through at least 2025 absent and downturn with a meaningful upside from incremental capital allocation. With that, operator, please open the line for questions.

 



