
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the American Electric Power First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Ms. Darcy Reese, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Darcy Reese -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Tani [Phonetic]. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call for American Electric Power. We appreciate you taking time today to join us today. Our earnings release, presentation slides and related financial information are available on our website at aep.com.Today, we will be making forward-looking statements during the call. There are many factors that may cause future results to differ materially from these statements. Please refer to our SEC filings for a discussion of these factors.Joining me this morning for opening remarks are Nick Akins, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Julie Sloat, our Chief Financial Officer. We will take your questions following their remarks. I will now turn the call over to Nick.Nicholas K. Akins -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Darcy, and welcome again everyone to American Electric Power's first quarter 2021 earnings call and happy Earth Day. Before I get started with our results for the quarter, I just have to say, I was struck with the public relations -- public reactions to the Chauvin verdict. It has been a long wait, but justice and faith in our legal system does prevail. I bring this up because it happens, I had chosen a song, which I do every quarter as you know for a different reason, but now it serves two purposes.One, the most mesmerizing singer as I'd ever heard was the late Marvin Gaye. I thought of his song when actually thinking about our quarter and the multitude of activities that AEP continues to accomplish and was thinking of, What's Going On, the Marvin Gaye hit from 1971, written during another tumultuous time in America. This song was a plea for peace, justice and understanding perspectives to move forward in a positive way together. As I said, this song was released in 1971, 50 years ago, but it could not be more appropriate today. We need our leaders, our communities and indeed, our companies to continue to come together and stop the divisiveness, which the new cycle tends to feed off of and recognized we have a lot more in common than our differences, that would be a great start to advancing this nation in a positive way.That being said, getting to my original purpose, as I said earlier, what's going on with AEP as the lyrics say, Hey, man, what's happening, woo, everything is everything, we're going to do a get down today, boy, I'll tell you [Phonetic]. So here we go, the first quarter of 2021 came in with operating earnings of $1.15 per share versus $1.02 for first quarter '20, which met our expectations particularly given Winter Storm Uri's impact in Texas, Arkansas, Louisiana and Oklahoma, which we reported on in last quarter's earnings call. AEP continues to reaffirm our 2021 guidance range of $4.55 to $4.75 per share and our 5% to 7% long-term growth rate, and we would still be disappointed not to be in the upper half of the guidance range.It's hard to believe it has been over a year since we entered into the pandemic, I continue to be impressed by the resiliency of our employees, their dedication and commitment to our customers and communities. We continue to practice social distancing, we're encouraging vaccinations and looking forward to putting COVID in the rearview mirror. As we look toward the future, we are seeing our community starting to rebound from the shadow of the pandemic. Job growth and electric consumption show continued improvement, supporting our view that the economy within our service territory will continue to rebound. While our normalized load was down 1.9% for the quarter, this was largely attributable to the one-time Uri weather event in February. If not for the disruptive impact of the storm on manufacturing and the supply chain, we believe our load growth would have been more robust and other key signpost continue to point toward a healthy recovery in 2021. Julie will be covering this in more detail later.

 



We continue to make significant progress in diversifying our generation fleet. Last week, we proudly commissioned the first of our three projects that make up our $2 billion North Central wind investment. On April 14th, the 199 megawatt Sundance Wind Energy Center came online on budget despite challenges of COVID-19 and extreme weather. Commercial operation of the project means our PSO and SWEPCO-Louisiana and Arkansas customers will start saving on their energy bills by taking advantage of this clean low cost wind resource. We continue to look forward to the Maverick and Traverse projects coming online at the end of 2021 and early 2022, respectively.At EEI, we announced the retirement of several fossil plants, which combined with previously announced retirements results in 8,000 megawatts of planned retirements and expiring PPAs over the next 10 years. This drives the need for incremental capacity, economic energy and furthers the opportunity to continue to transform our fleet and invest in regulated renewables for the benefit of our customers. For each of our vertically integrated companies, we updated our resource plans and identified approximately 15,000 megawatts of wind and solar investment opportunity over the next 10 years in addition to our North Central wind investment. This amounts to 8,566 more megawatts than we mentioned last November at EEI. In fact, almost 10,000 megawatts are proposed during the 2021 to 2025 time period.By building on the success of North Central wind, we are focusing on pursuing regulated renewable investments for the benefit of our shareholders, customers and our communities. We look forward to continuing to work collaboratively with stakeholders as part of our integrated resource planning process, many of which will be filed during the fourth quarter of this year and we'll be issuing request for proposals for these resources in both the near and over the long term. These updated resource plans are consistent with our emission reduction goals that we announced in February and it will put us on a path to achieve 80% reductions in carbon by 2030 and net zero carbon by 2050. As we mentioned in our newly released climate report, we are committed to making the energy we provide as clean as possible as fast as we can without compromising reliability, affordability or the security of the electric power grid. We will provide updates on our progress as we move to the execution stage of what we call our future forward strategy.By focusing on investments in support of clean, affordable and reliable energy, our customers and communities will be well positioned to adapt to the needs of a clean energy economy. Another important milestone that further enables our clean energy transition, I&M and its affiliate AEG reached an agreement to acquire the 1300 megawatt Rockport Unit 2 from the lessors at the end of the lease in 2022. I&M has leased the unit and operated it since construction. If approved by the Indiana Commission, AEP's actions will provide a valuable short-term capacity bridge for the company, resolve pending litigation and bring certainty to the closure of both Rockport units by 2028. This agreement also provides further flexibility and advancing our clean energy transition more quickly if appropriate.Our rate case activity continues and it's robust, obviously across all the jurisdictions in Virginia, Appalachian Power received an order in its Virginia triennial rate case reconsideration request on March 26. The commission did not change the initial holding. APCo is now focused on its appeal to the Supreme Court of Virginia and the errors in applying the statues that the company believes the commission relied upon to reach its decision. In Ohio, a settlement was reached showing the productive relationship AEP Ohio has with various Ohio stakeholders. The settlement agreement balanced the interest of the settling parties, including the commission staff, the Ohio consumers counsel, industrial, commercial and other entities like the Ohio Hospital Association. Testimony in support of the settlement was followed by the company and the matter is set for hearing focused on the settlement agreement on May 12.In our SWEPCO jurisdictions, we have rate cases pending in Louisiana and Texas and are preparing a filing in Arkansas. In Texas, we are seeking a net revenue increase of $73 million and an ROE of 10.35%, the filing included investments made from February 2018 accelerated depreciation for three coal plants and increase in storm reserve and vegetation management. Intervening parties and staff filed testimony, company rebuttal testimony is due April 23rd and there is a May 19th hearing date. We expect to receive an order in this case by December. In Louisiana, the $93 million net revenue increased seeking a 10.35% ROE is before the commission awaiting a procedural schedule. In Arkansas, SWEPCO filed notice that it would not be filing the formula rate update, because it would be filing a new base rate -- base case filing to update rates. This was expected as a result of North Central approval and will incorporate the facilities in base rates in Arkansas. A notice of intent to file a rate case was also filed in Oklahoma for PSO on March 16th. The case will be filed by April 30th. the filing is intended to address, among other things, general updates, the eroding [Phonetic] ROE and a filing requirement related to incorporating the North Central assets in base rates and minimizing the length of the right to recovering those costs.We also continue to engage the Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas Commissions regarding the appropriate mechanisms for recovery of the approximately $1.2 billion of fuel expense that occurred with Winter Storm Uri. AEP continues to request WACC recovery to maintain balance sheet strength and capital structures of the operating companies. Julie will update the state of the alternatives being discussed. And otherwise, a great story, I would be remiss if I did not express extreme disappointment with the FERC decision to consider the possible reduction or removal of the RTO 50 basis points adder for transmission investment. As evidenced by every reputable expert on what is necessary to achieve our net zero goals, transmission is an integral part of the solution, ensuring a reliable and resilient grid is foundational to support a clean energy economy.It's vital that federal policy continues to support transmission investments and particularly those that are made by companies who are participants in RTOs. Participation in RTOs has resulted in ensuring the most efficient regional solutions are advanced, participation should be encouraged and not discouraged. There is a cost of being in an RTO and upsetting this cost benefit equation could change the dynamic of RTO participation. Under the Federal Power Act, FERC is required to provide incentives to each utility that joins an RTO. FERC is Abrupt About-Face on incentives will certainly lead to litigation as is consistent with its previously well established and correct approach that incentives should not expire until the utility leaves the RTO.Onto our Achieving Excellence Program. Our Achieving Excellence Program, we continue to harness the ideas of our team members by focusing on operational efficiency gains as a substantial part of our efforts have been the O&M curve this specific program is set to deliver sustainable annual O&M savings that will continue to support our earnings growth expectations. I continue to be proud of the wealth of ideas that our team members bring to ensure that we are maximizing the value of services that we provide to our customers and our communities.Lastly, regarding our efforts regarding portfolio management, we now will announce an ongoing strategic review of our Kentucky assets. We expect to complete this review during 2021. As we have mentioned before and as for all practical purposes, we are a fully regulated utility. We're now focused on portfolio optimization and capital allocation prioritization to address future capital needs with balance sheet expectations while improving shareholder value. So more to come in the future regarding this review.Now, I'll move to the equalizer chart. Overall, our operations ROE is currently 9.1%. We generally target it in the 9.5% to 10% range. The ROEs that we're discussing here are not weather-normalized or keep in mind, we're also thickening equity layers over the last several years as well. So that reflects in the ROEs as well.So as -- moving to AEP Ohio, the ROE for AEP Ohio at the end of first quarter 2021 was 10.3%, slightly above the authorized primarily due to timely recovery of capital investments. We expect the ROE to trend around authorized levels as we maintain concurrent capital recovery of distribution and transmission investments.Regarding APCo, the APCo at the end of first quarter was 8.6%, is below authorized due to lower normalized usage, higher amortization primarily related to the retired coal-fired generation assets and higher depreciation from increased Virginia depreciation rates and capital investments, partially offset by continued management of O&M expenses. And keep in mind, the Virginia triennial review as part of that process as well.Kentucky, the ROE for Kentucky at the end of first quarter was 4.8%, is well below authorized due to loss of load from weak economic conditions and loss of major customers along with higher expenses. Transmission revenues were also lower due to the delay of some capital projects, and I've already discussed in relation to Kentucky what we're doing there.I&M, the ROE of I&M at the end of the first quarter was 10.4%. It's above authorized due to continued discipline managing O&M expenses, reduced interest expenses and rate true-ups, partially offset by lower than expected retail sales during the first quarter of '21. Regarding PSO, PSO at the end of first quarter 2021 was 9.1%. It's slightly below its authorized level, primarily due to increased capital investment not currently in base rates, partially offset by continued management of O&M expenses and I mentioned earlier, we are giving notification of following a base rate case there.SWEPCO, it was below authorized, at 9.1% and due to loss of load and continued impact of the Arkansas share of the Turk Plant, which we said on several occasions, is about 110 basis points and also partially offset by Off-system sales in the first quarter '21 resulting from the severe winter storm event. AEP Texas at the end of the first quarter was 7.7%. It was below authorized primarily due to lag associated with the timing of annual cost recovery filings. Favorable regulatory treatment allows AEP Texas to file DCRF and TCOS filings to recover costs on capital investment. So while the expectation is for the ROE to trend toward an authorized ROE of 9.4% in the longer term continued significant levels of investment in Texas will impact the ROE.And then the ROE for AEP Transmission Holdco at the end of the first quarter was 10.1%. AEP Transmission Holdco's ROE was slightly below authorized, primarily driven by the annual revenue true up in the second quarter of 2020 to return the over collection of 2019 revenues. Transmission is forecasting this ROE to be in the mid-10% range in 2021.So, I'll conclude by stealing a comment from one of our international CEO peers, who made the observation that we are in a magical moment for the electric industry given the move to a clean energy future through electrification. It has been a very busy quarter for AEP, but the work really starts now regarding the execution of our plan to transform this company from what was the largest coal-fired utility to one of the largest regulated renewable companies in the US, an amazing transition that will benefit the customers with clean energy with a continued eye on reliability and affordability. Along with being the largest transmission supplier in the country that will also benefit from the resource transformation and the further emphasis being placed on infrastructure and electrification through transportation, AEP is well positioned to experience it's truly magic moment in our history that will set the tone for our continued quest to remaining the premier regulated utility.Julie, I'll turn it over to you.Julie Sloat -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Nick, and thanks, Darcy. It's good to be with everyone this morning. I'm going to walk us through the financial results for the quarter, share some thoughts on our service territory load and economy, and then finish with a review of our credit metrics and liquidity.So let's go to Slide 7, which shows the comparison of GAAP to operating earnings for the quarter. GAAP earnings were $1.16 per share compared to $1 per share in 2020. There is a reconciliation of GAAP to operating earnings on Page 15 of the presentation today.Let's walk through our quarterly operating earnings performance by segment, this is laid out on Slide 8. Operating earnings for the first quarter totaled $1.15 per share or $571 million compared to $1.02 per share or $504 million in 2020. Looking at the drivers by segment, operating earnings for the Vertically Integrated Utilities were $0.54 per share, up $0.04, driven by the favorable impact of weather due to warmer than normal winter temps in 2020. Other favorable items in this segment included Off-system sales, higher transmission revenue and the impact of rate changes across multiple jurisdictions, partially offsetting these favorable favorable items were higher depreciation, lower normalized retail load, higher O&M, a prior period fuel adjustment and higher other taxes.The Transmission and Distribution Utilities segment earned $0.23 per share, down $0.01 from last year. Earnings in this segment declined primarily due to lower normalized retail load attributable in part to storm Uri. Other smaller decreases included higher depreciation, tax and O&M expenses. Favorable drivers in this segment included transmission revenue, rate changes and weather.The AEP Transmission Holdco segment continued to grow, contributing $0.35 per share, an improvement of $0.07 per share from last year. Net plant increased by $1.3 billion or 13% since March of last year. Generation and Marketing produced $0.06 per share, down $0.01 from last year. The favorable impact of the retirement of Oklaunion and land sales on the generation business offset the unfavorable ERCOT market prices on the wholesale business during storm Uri in February. The decrease in the renewables business was driven by lower energy margins and higher expenses. Finally, Corporate and Other was up $0.04 per share, driven by an investment gain and lower interest expense, partially offsetting these items was the higher impact of -- impact of higher taxes. Overall, we experienced a solid quarter and we're confident in reaffirming our annual operating earnings guidance.So let's take a look at our normalized load for the quarter on Page 9. Starting on the lower right corner, our first quarter normalized load came in 1.9% below the first quarter of 2020. There are two important factors to consider when evaluating the year-over-year comparison for the quarter. The first factor is that last year included an extra leap year day assuming everything else equal, you would expect about a 1% decline in sales due to one lesser day in the quarter, and the second factor is that the pandemic started during the last two weeks of the 2021st quarter. In other words, the first quarter analysis is comparing a pre-pandemic view of our service territory load to a view after COVID began. Importantly, we still expect a stronger recovery in the second half of this year as vaccinations increased positioning more communities to relax restrictions on businesses without jeopardizing public health and as a benefit of the American Rescue Plan stimulus, it was signed in late March, works its way through the economy. I'll talk a little bit more about the latest economic projections when we get to Slide 11.So let's take a look at the upper left quadrant, our normalized residential sales increased by 1.5% in the first quarter compared to last year. The growth in the residential sales was spread across most operating companies. As the pandemic recovery progresses, growth in residential sales as begun to moderate. While we expect residential sales to decline by 1.1% in 2021, we're assuming a moderate sustained load benefit from this customer class given the stickiness of work-from-home arrangements for many office workers across our service territory for the foreseeable future.So if you go over to the right, normalized commercial sales decreased by 1.6% in the first quarter. Even though commercial sales were down across every operating company excluding Ohio, we are seeing steady sequential improvement since the pandemic began. In fact, AEP Ohio was the first operating company to post positive commercial sales growth. This correlates well with the fact that the AEP Ohio territory added the most jobs in the first quarter. We also continue to see significant improvement in the same sectors that were hardest hit by the shutdowns in the second quarter of 2020. These sectors include schools, churches, restaurants and hotels.So finally, if you look in the lower left chart, you'll see that industrial sales decreased by 6.1% in the quarter compared to 2020. Industrial sales were down across every operating company and most industrial sectors. Not surprisingly, the biggest declines were located in the western territory where storm Uri in February caused a significant yet temporary -- significant yet temporary disruptions to many manufacturing facilities located in ERCOT and SPP. In addition to the numerous electric generators unable to run due to frozen natural gas supply lines, there are a number of other manufacturing processes that rely on natural gas supply to produce their product. Many of those businesses were unable to produce for up to a week while the pipelines were being sort out and in some cases, industrial loads were stalled as long as 42 days in Texas. So the key takeaway here is that the dip in industrial sales in the first quarter was largely due to the one-time winter storm, which does not impact our fundamental outlook.So here's an interesting data point that illustrates this, our industrial sales in the eastern part of our service territory were down 2.6% as compared to the significant 12.8% drop in the western part of our service territory, which was impacted by Uri. So obviously, that's a pretty dramatic difference. That being said, we're still very bullish about the second half of the year as the US acquires a significantly greater concentration of immunity from vaccinations and as the full impact of the additional fiscal stimulus is felt throughout the service territory economy.So let's go over to Slide 10 where I can provide a little color on the industrial sales performance in the first quarter. The blue bars show the change in sales to our oil and gas customers. In aggregate, the sales to oil and gas sectors were down 9.6% in the first quarter, led by the 21% reduction in oil and gas extraction. Most of the decline in this sector is in response to the challenging market signals from last year when the drop in global demand along with the temporary price war caused oil prices to fall below many producers' breakeven point. However, we do not expect the weakness in oil and gas to persist. In fact, natural gas prices in March were up about 60% from last year and domestic oil prices last month have more than doubled since March of 2020. We fully expect the higher prices today will provide the necessary signal that producers are looking for to increase their production within the service territory. And once we see the production increase in the upstream sectors, it's only a matter of time before we see the corresponding increase in the midstream and downstream operations.The orange bars in the chart show the change in industrial sales, excluding oil and gas. While it was still down 3.3% for the quarter, we expect to see stronger improvement in the second half of the year as the global economy recovers from the pandemic. Some of the weakness in manufacturing right now is related to supply chain disruptions. As efforts continue to strengthen the resiliency of the domestic supply chain for manufacturing, the AEP service territory is certainly positioned to benefit from any movement in that direction.So let's go over to Slide number 11 where I can provide an update that I mentioned a few moments ago on the latest economic conditions within the AEP footprint. Starting in the lower left chart or on the left chart, you'll see that AEP service territory experienced a 1.6% increase in gross regional product compared to the first quarter of 2020. This was much better than the US, which had a relatively flat first quarter in terms of year-over-year GDP growth. The AEP service territory was less impacted by the virus and had fewer restrictions on businesses than other parts of the country, which has allowed the regional economy to fare better than the US throughout the pandemic. Looking forward, the AEP service territory is expected to grow by 5.2% in 2021, lagging the economic recovery in the US as you might expect.Moving to employment on the right, you can see that the job market for the AEP service territory has also outperformed the US throughout the pandemic. For the quarter, employment growth was only down 1.6%, which was 4 points [Phonetic] or 4% better than the US during the first quarter. This is largely the result of the mix of jobs in our local economy, which has a heavier relative concentration of manufacturing and government jobs and a smaller share of leisure and hospitality jobs. Going forward, we expect job growth of 1.7% in 2021.So let's go over to Page 12, checking on the company's capitalization and liquidity position. On a GAAP basis, our debt to capital ratio is 62.5%. When adjusted for the Storm Uri event, the ratio remains consistent with our year-end 2020 ratio at 61.8%. Let's talk about our FFO to debt metric because as you would expect and as we've been signaling, the impact of Storm Uri has and will have a temporary and noticeable impact in 2021 on this metric.Taking a look at the upper right quadrant on this page, you see our FFO to debt metric based on the traditional Moody's and GAAP calculated basis as well as on an adjusted Moody's and GAAP calculated basis. On a traditional unadjusted basis, our FFO to debt ratio decreased by 3.9% during the quarter to 9.1% on a Moody's basis. Well, this is a pretty dramatic impact. The rating agencies are very much aware of this and have taken the metric data point as well as the anticipated recovery into consideration as it relates to our credit rating. On an adjusted basis, the Moody's FFO to debt metric is 12.9%. To be very clear, this 12.9% figure removes or adjusts the calculation to eliminate the impact of approximately $1.2 billion of cash outflows associated with covering the unplanned Uri-driven fuel and purchase power in the SPP region directly impacting PSO and SWEPCO in particular. The metric is also adjusted to remove the effect of the associated debt we used to fund the unplanned payments. This should give you a sense of where we would be from a business as usual prospectus of 12.9% business as usual. As you know, we're in frequent contact with the rating agencies to keep them apprised of all aspects of our business and importantly, there is no change in our equity financing plan.On the topic of anticipated recovery, there is no debate that Storm Uri was an extreme event and consequently, the various states would like to resolve recovery docket as expeditiously as practical. Assuming recovery begins this year, our cash flow metrics will quickly return to the low to mid-teens target range next year as expected. So this should be a one year phenomenon for us.As many of you know, we have initiated regulatory cases in our respective states to evaluate the costs and determine the recovery plan. Let me provide a quick update where we are in this process. On February 24th, PSO filed with the Commission for recovery of fuel costs through a -- with a regulatory asset and weighted average cost of capital carrying charge and subsequently filed a motion seeking recovery of a $615 million [Phonetic] regulatory asset with a five-year amortization. At this point, PSO has received approval to defer the storm-related costs, with recovery of the established regulatory asset over five years at an interim rate of PSO's short-term financing cost of like 75 basis points. This is intended to be an interim order and the actual carrying charge will determined in a future review and the regulatory asset amount is subject to finalization. Importantly, Oklahoma has also taken up a securitization bill to address the extraordinary fuel and purchase power costs felt by all utilities, PSO will evaluate as the securitization is appropriate for the recovery. And if so, we would expect it to occur as early as next year.In March, the Arkansas Public Service Commission issued an order authorizing recovery of the approximate $113 million Arkansas jurisdictional share of the retail customer fuel cost over five years, with the carrying charges to be determined at a later date and the actual amount to be recovered being subject to finalization. We requested a WACC rate, which was supported by the staff in accordance with the order, SWEPCO began recovery in this jurisdiction in April, that was at a customer deposit rate of something like 80 basis points. The recovery period and associated carrying charge will be further reviewed in a hearing that's already been set for July 8th of this year, so 2021.In March, the Louisiana Public Service Commission approved a special order granting a temporary modification to the fuel adjustment clause to allow utilities to spread recovery over a longer period of time. In April, SWEPCO begin recovery of the Louisiana jurisdictional share of these fuel costs is about $150 million based on a five-year recovery period in a fuel over under-recovery mechanism. SWEPCO will be working with the Louisiana Commission to finalize the actual recovery period and determine the appropriate carrying charge. And in Texas, SWEPCO intends to file for recovery under fuel surcharge, most likely in the second quarter. Our current plan is to request recovery over five years with a WACC carrying charge. Obviously, we have a lot in process on the regulatory recovery front on this matter and we'll keep you apprised as we make progress, because as we all know this is extremely important.Let's take a quick moment to visit our liquidity summary on the lower right of Slide 12. In March -- on March 31st, AEP renewed its $4 billion bank revolver for five years and also entered into a two-year $1 billion revolving credit facility to fortify our liquidity position as we go forward, just placed our net liquidity position as of March 31st at a strong $3.4 billion. Switching gears, our qualified pension funding increased 1.7% during the quarter to 103.5% and our OPEB funding increased 9.6% to 170.5%. Rising interest rates that decreased plan liabilities along with positive equity returns were the primary drivers for the funded status increases in both plans during the first quarter.So let's go to Slide 13, so we can wrap this thing up and get your questions, but I just want to call out a couple of quick things before we do that. So on top of mind for many folks I know this, we want to mention to you that we completed the planned $125 million equity funding portion of the North Central Wind Sundance project. We used our at the market mechanism, so that we could time the equity need with our purchase of the Sundance project, which occurred last week. As you know, we will continue to move forward with additional opportunities in the renewable space supporting our ESG focus as we transition toward a clean energy future. Our performance in the first quarter and stability of our regulated business model gives us the confidence to reaffirm our operating earnings guidance range of $4.55 per share to $4.75 per share. Because of our ability to continue to invest in our own system organically, we are confident in our ability to grow the company at our stated long-term growth rate of 5% to 7%.So we surely do appreciate your time and attention today. And with that, I'm going to turn the call over to the operator for your questions.