
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to Lilly's Q2 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Vice President of Investor Relations, Kevin Hern. Please go ahead.Kevin Hern -- Investor Relations

 



Good morning. Thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly and Company's Q2 2021 earnings call. I'm Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations, and joining me on today's call are Dave Ricks, Lilly's Chairman and CEO; Anat Ashkenazi, Chief Financial Officer; Dr. Dan Skovronsky, Chief Scientific and Medical Officer; Anne White, President of Lilly Oncology; Ilya Yuffa, President of Lilly Bio-Medicines; Mike Mason, President of Lilly Diabetes; and Jake Van Naarden, CEO of Loxo Oncology at Lilly. We're also joined by Lauren Zierke, Kento Ueha and Sara Smith of the Investor Relations team.During this conference call, we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors including those listed on slide 3. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is contained in our latest Forms 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q and 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community. It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions. As we transition to our prepared remarks, a reminder that our commentary will focus on non-GAAP financial measures.Now, I'll turn the call over to Dave for a summary of our second quarter results.David A. Ricks -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Kevin. Q2 of last year was the peak of the pandemic's negative impact to our business. And one year later, I'm proud of the innovation and resilience displayed by my Lilly colleagues to deliver against our objectives in new ways while also mobilizing to develop treatments to help combat COVID-19. Looking at Q2 2021, we were encouraged by the increasing worldwide vaccination rates as well as the underlying environment in most of our major markets. COVID-19-related stocking in Q1 followed by destocking in Q2 of last year complicates quarterly performance comparisons. Therefore, looking at revenue growth in the first half of 2021 better reflects the underlying trends in our business.On today's call we will provide year-over-year comparisons for both Q2 and the first half of the year. In the first half of 2021, we delivered 11% growth in our core business. This excludes COVID-19 antibody revenue. This was buoyed by strong volume driven growth across key brands and major geographies including the U.S., Europe and China. Turning specifically to Q2, revenue grew 23% compared to Q2 2020 or 20% in constant currency. This performance was driven entirely by volume growth of 22 percentage points. As previously highlighted, in Q2 2020 we saw reversal of the $250 million pandemic-related product stocking, which occurred in Q1 2020.When excluding COVID-19 antibody revenue, the Q2 2020 COVID-19-related destocking and the sale of Cialis in China, our core business grew 12% for the quarter, up from 7% in Q1 on the same basis. We were pleased to see sequential topline growth in the core business this quarter, signaling that healthcare systems' continued recovery from the pandemic and the strength of our underlying business. Key growth products continue to drive our revenue growth and represent 54% of our core business this quarter. Our non-GAAP gross margin was 79.3% in Q2 or 79.7% excluding impact of foreign exchange on international inventories sold. Excluding the FX impact our gross margin increased by approximately 60 basis points compared to last year. Our non-GAAP operating margin was 29.4%, representing an improvement of nearly 140 basis points.We're pleased to see operating margin expand year-over-year and we expect continued expansion in the second half of this year. On the pipeline front, we achieved multiple milestones since our earnings call in April, including receiving breakthrough therapy designation for donanemab and announcing our plan to submit to the FDA under the accelerated approval pathway. Announcing positive Phase 3 results for tirzepatide's SURPASS-4 trial, with planned global submissions of the SURPASS program for tirzepatide in Type 2 diabetes by the end of 2021; obtaining approval for Jardiance in partnership with Boehringer Ingelheim for HFrEF in Europe and announcing positive Phase 3 results from the EMPEROR-Preserved trial for Jardiance in HFpEF, the first and only successful trial for this patient population.

 



And initiating Phase 3 trial results for pirtobrutinib in mantle cell lymphoma; tirzepatide in HFpEF, and Verzenio in HR+ HER2+ early breast cancer and now prostate cancer. We also continue to augment our pipeline with business development deals and announced the acquisition of Protomer Technologies. We welcome Protomer -- the Protomer team to Lilly and are excited to bring this technology to our diabetes pipeline as we believe glucose-sensing insulin may become the next generation for insulin treatment to improve the quality of life for people living with diabetes.Lastly on financials, we returned approximately $1.3 billion to shareholders via the dividend and share repurchases in the quarter and authorized the repurchase of up to $5 billion in stock in addition to the $500 million authorization remaining under our 2018 share repurchase program. Moving on to slides 5 and 6 you'll see a list of key events since our Q1 earnings call including a May Webcast, which highlighted our updated environmental, social and governance strategy and our sustainability efforts as well as the launch of a new ESG website to serve as a comprehensive resource to provide increased transparency regarding the company's ESG goals and progress.Further, as part of our goal to become carbon neutral in our own operations at our manufacturing plant in Kinsale, we recently inaugurated a new solar field which is now the largest in Ireland. We also announced donations of COVID-19 therapies at no cost to low income and lower middle income countries heavily impacted by the pandemic. And are proud of the impact we are having around the world as we work to combat COVID-19.Now, I'll turn the call over to Anat to review our Q2 results and to provide an update on our financial guidance for 2021.Anat Ashkenazi -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Dave. Slides 7 and 8 summarize financial performance in the second quarter and year-to-date. I'll focus my comments on non-GAAP performance. Revenue increased 23% this quarter compared to Q2 2020, or 12% excluding the items Dave mentioned earlier, representing strong momentum for our core business. Given the COVID-19-related stocking and destocking seen between Q1 and Q2 of 2020, our first half performance of 11% revenue growth, or 8% in constant currency excluding COVID-19 antibody revenue, is a more accurate reflection of underlying performance and the sequential quarter-over-quarter revenue growth better represents the strength in our core business.Sequential revenue growth from Q1 to Q2 for core business, increasing vaccination rates in many major markets and the majority of our sales reps now being back in the field suggests a recovery from the pandemic was in line with our expectation for the quarter. We are particularly pleased with the strong volume growth across key brands like Trulicity, Taltz, Verzenio and Jardiance. Verzenio in the U.S. grew nearly 6 percentage points in share of total prescription exiting June compared to the prior year, while Trulicity, Taltz and Jardiance increased their leading market share in the same period while class growth accelerated. These products, along with other key growth products, represented 54% of revenue in the core business this quarter.Gross margin as a percent of revenue declined 30 basis points to 79.3% in Q2. The decrease in gross margin percent was driven primarily by unfavorable effect of foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold. Excluding this FX impact, gross margin as a percent of revenue grew 60 points this quarter. Total operating expenses grew 18% this quarter compared to the same quarter last year. Marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased 16% as the base period in Q2 2020 included a meaningful reduction direct-to-consumer marketing and customer facing expenses as healthcare systems closed.R&D expenses increased 20%, driven by investment in exciting late-stage pipeline opportunities including pirtobrutinib, tirzepatide, donanemab and lebrikizumab. In Q2 we also invested approximately $85 million in COVID therapies R&D, bringing our total COVID-19 R&D investment to approximately $300 million year-to-date. Net of COVID-19 R&D investment, operating expense growth was 18% compared to Q2 of 2020 and 10% for the first half of the year. Operating income increased 29% compared to Q2 of 2020 and operating income as a percent of revenue was 29.4% for the quarter, an increase of 140 basis points compared to the prior year. This increase was driven by revenue growth outpacing expense growth, and we expect continued margin expansion in the second half of 2021.Other income and expense was income of $5 million this quarter compared to expense of $57 million in Q2 2020, driven by income from European patent settlements for Alimta. Our effective tax rate was 14.4%, an increase of 350 basis points compared with the same quarter last year. The effective tax rate for both periods will reduce by net discrete tax benefit, with the lower net discrete tax benefit reflected in the second quarter of 2021. At the bottom line, net income and earnings per share increased 29% in Q2 and 22% year-to-date, or 30% and 24% respectively in constant currency. On slide 9, we quantify the effect of price, rate and volume on revenue growth across the world and we are encouraged by the growth seen across most of our major geographies.This quarter, U.S. revenue grew 18% compared to the second quarter of 2020. Adjusting for COVID-19 antibody revenue and the Q2 2020 COVID-19-related destocking, the core business grew 8% in the U.S., up from 5% in Q1 on that same basis. These results were driven entirely by volume led by Trulicity, Taltz, Verzenio and Jardiance. Pricing was a 1% drag on U.S. revenue growth this quarter, with increased rebates to maintain excellent access and higher growth in lower net price segments, largely offset by low utilization in the 340B segment, changes for estimates to rebates and discounts, and to a lesser extent, modest list price increases.The year-to-date price decline of 3% in the U.S. is in line with our net price expectations for the full year. Specific to Taltz in the U.S., performance for the quarter was in line with the expectation we described on the Q1 earnings call. And we are pleased to see a return to net sales growth this quarter as volume gains more than offset price declines. Taltz Q2 performance benefited from a favorable change to prior estimates for rebates and discounts and COVID-19-related inventory destocking last year. Excluding these items, Taltz still returned to double-digit growth in the second quarter. We believe the net price decline for Taltz in the first half of 2021 represents the underlying full price trend, and that continued volume growth will drive net sales acceleration in the second half of the year.While midterm price trends are currently stable, given increasing variability in payer mix, we continue to expect quarterly variability in reported U.S. net price changes across our business. Moving to Europe, revenue grew 27% in constant currency. Excluding COVID-19 antibody revenue and the negative impact of Q2 2020 COVID-19-related customer buying patterns, revenue grew 14% in constant currency, driven entirely by volume growth, primarily for Trulicity, Taltz, Alimta and Olumiant. We continue to be pleased with the momentum of our business in Europe and expect continued growth in the second half of this year, excluding the expected impact from the loss of exclusivity for Alimta.In Japan, revenue grew 2% in constant currency, driven primarily by the launches of Olumiant and Emgality. Revenue growth in Japan continues to be negatively impacted by the decreased demand for several products that have lost market exclusivity. But our key growth products grew 21% in Q2 in Japan and represented approximately 50% of the business there. Recent surges of COVID-19 cases continue to negatively impact recovery in Japan, though we currently expect improved revenue growth in the second half of the year, based on the uptake of newer products. In China, revenue grew 106% in constant currency, primarily driven by the divestiture of Cialis and the launches of Tyvyt and Trulicity.Excluding the impact from the Cialis transaction, our revenue in China grew 35% in constant currency. We are excited about the continued momentum in China, as sales of new medicines have accelerated significantly in the past three quarters. Revenue in the rest of the world increased 5% in constant currency, driven primarily by our key growth products. At the bottom of the slide is the price, rate, volume effect on revenues for our June year-to-date results, which shows double-digit growth across all major geographies except Japan. As shown on slide 10, our key growth products continue to drive strong worldwide volume growth.These products drove nearly 17 percentage points of growth this quarter and continue to drive our overall performance and outlook. Slide 11 highlights the contributions of our key growth products. In total, these brands generated over $3.5 billion in revenue this quarter and made up 54% of our core business revenue in Q2. We're encouraged by the strength of our key products in Q2, collectively up over 34% compared to the same period last year. Trulicity, Taltz, Verzenio and Jardiance all continue to outgrow their respective classes. We are now tracking above pre-COVID-19 new-to-brand prescription baseline in the U.S. across all our major therapeutic areas with the exception of oncology and the CGRP antibody class, which we expect will continue to recover in the second half of the year.On slide 12, we provide an update on capital allocation. In the first half of 2021, we invested $5 billion to drive our future growth through a combination of after-tax investments in R&D, business development and capital investments. In addition, we've returned over $1.5 billion to shareholders in dividends and share repurchase. As we look ahead to the second half of the year, we will continue to fund our growth of our key products and recent launches, invest in our pipeline and seek external innovation to augment our future prospects as well as return capital to shareholders. Turning to our 2021 financial guidance on slide 13, we are updating our GAAP and non-GAAP guidance.While the COVID-19 pandemic is still impacting countries around the world, the pace of recovery from the pandemic was in line with our expectations in Q2. New-to-brand scripts in most of the classes in which we compete with are tracking above pre-COVID baseline in the U.S., and healthcare systems in most major markets are largely returning to normal as we enter the second half of 2021. We are increasing our full year revenue outlook for the core business by $200 million to reflect the strong performance and favorable impact from foreign exchange. We are, however, lowering the top end of the range for COVID-19 antibody revenue by $400 million and confirming the bottom end of that range.Moving forward, we expect COVID-19 antibody revenues to be less of a factor as demonstrated by Q2 revenue declining to $150 million from $810 million in Q1. As variants are growing, we recognize the situations across the globe can evolve quickly and we plan to adapt as required. The net impact of these changes is an updated revenue range of $26.8 billion to $27.4 billion. Our outlook for non-GAAP gross margin percent remains unchanged at approximately 79%. On a reported basis, we've lowered guidance for gross margin percent to approximately 75% to reflect the impact of COVID-19 antibodies excess inventory charge due to the combination of changes to current and forecasted demand from the U.S. and international governments and near-term expiry of COVID-19 antibodies inventory.For research and development and SG&A, our guidance ranges remain unchanged. However, investment in promising R&D opportunities and exciting potential launches could push us toward the top end of our guidance range for both R&D and SG&A. Our non-GAAP operating margin guidance is now expected to be approximately 30% driven by lower COVID-19 antibody revenue. However, it remains approximately 31% excluding COVID-19 antibodies. Our GAAP operating margin is now expected to be approximately 24%. We are increasing our non-GAAP range for OID to an expense of zero to $100 million to reflect the Alimta patent settlements in Europe I noted earlier.And our GAAP range is now income of $375 million to $475 million which also reflects the impact of equity investment gains in the first half of the year. On a non-GAAP basis, our expected tax rate remains unchanged, and on a reported basis, we've lowered our expected tax rate to approximately 12%. Finally, the non-GAAP range for earnings per share remains unchanged at $7.80 to $8.00, while GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $6.73 to $6.93, primarily driven by the impact of the COVID-19 antibody inventory charge, the impact of equity investment gains and the Alimta patent settlements in Europe.We are confident in our ability to achieve our 2021 revenue goals for the core business while delivering mid-teens EPS growth. As we look at the underlying volume and share trends across our key growth products, we're confident in our full year outlook for the core business and the pipeline successes in the first half of this year strengthen our conviction in our midterm and long-term outlook for continued top tier revenue growth and operating margin expansion.Now, I will turn the call over to Dan to provide an update on our pipeline.Daniel M. Skovronsky -- Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific and Medical OfficerThanks, Anat. 2021 has clearly been a productive year for R&D at Lilly, with continued strong progress in our pipeline and more potential catalysts on the way. Before I get into the broader portfolio update, I'll spend a few minutes highlighting several updates for our late-stage pipeline. I'll start with donanemab. In Q2, the first amyloid-long agent for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease was approved under the FDA's accelerated approval pathway, based on plaque lowering, which we believe reflects a shift in policy and sets a new path for Alzheimer's drug approval in the U.S.Lilly has long been an advocate for using biomarkers for amyloid plaque and neurofibrillary tangles to identify patients for treatment and to monitor their response to therapy. We were pleased to see the FDA's conclusion that improvements in brain pathology are appropriate surrogates for clinical efficacy of Alzheimer's drugs. Based on data we've seen to-date, we believe donanemab clears plaque faster and deeper than previously seen with other therapies and achieved complete plaque clearance in a majority of patients in TRAILBLAZER-ALZ after only limited duration of dosing. On the basis of the clinical evidence for donanemab, we were pleased to have received breakthrough therapy designation from the FDA.At the Alzheimer's Association's International Conference last week, we shared additional important analyses from donanemab TRAILBLAZER-ALZ. Briefly, I'll highlight several findings. First, we shared detailed exploratory statistical analyses comparing a variety of methods beyond MMRM and DPM, as summarized on slide 14. We were pleased to see that these new analyses showed consistency of effects on primary and secondary outcomes across all statistical methods. Notably, all of the new analyses conducted showed good separation of treatment from placebo, with statistical significance achieved for most endpoints at nearly all relevant time points measured. The robustness of the treatment efficacy across analytical methods increases our confidence in the potential clinical benefit of donanemab.While all statistical methods evaluated showed similar results, we note that the Bayesian disease progression model, DPM, closely reflected the raw observed data, with the smallest standard error of any method. These results reinforce our hypothesis that DPM is a preferred analytical method for Alzheimer's trials. Additionally, we shared new data showing a relationship of amyloid plaque reduction and slowing of cognitive decline, as shown on slide 15. To our knowledge, this is the first time such results have been available. When we initially reported the results of TRAILBLAZER-ALZ, we commented that, at a group level, patients treated with donanemab showed both statistically better plaque reduction and statistically better slowing of cognitive decline at 18 months.But patient-level correlations between degree of plaque reduction and magnitude of slowing of cognitive decline were not significant. Now, using a more sophisticated PK PET ADRS exploratory analysis that uses all of the available time-course data, we showed a highly significant relationship between degree of amyloid plaque reduction and slowing of cognitive decline with P less than 0.001. The Conrado model, shown here, was published in 2014 and is the results of efforts from the Coalition Against Major Diseases, CAMD, which collected placebo data from 15 randomized trials, including almost 4,500 participants.We introduced a treatment arm and incorporated percent amyloid plaque removal into this model to generate these results, and we believe this is important support for the use of amyloid plaque reduction as a surrogate for clinical efficacy. Notably, these data suggest the full clearance of amyloid plaque is required for highest efficacy, as model results predict that patients achieving 100% clearance of amyloid plaque could have more than 40% slowing of disease progression. Moving to slide 16, we show an exploratory analysis looking at the effect of donanemab's plaque clearance on development of tau pathology.Tau pathology is an exciting biomarker, since measures of Alzheimer's disease tau, unlike measures of amyloid plaque, have been correlated with clinical measures of cognitive and functional decline, as noted here. Importantly, we had previously shown that donanemab-treated patients had slower accumulation of regional brain tau pathology than placebo-treated patients. This is an important finding because the amount of brain tau pathology is an excellent predictor of subsequent cognitive decline, a finding we observed with solanezumab in Expedition 3 and reproduced, once again, in TRAILBLAZER-ALZ. Now, we've extended these results to show that the donanemab-treated patients who achieved complete clearance of amyloid plaque by six months had the most marked slowing of tau spread with nearly complete abrogation of progression in the frontal lobe.This reinforces our hypothesis that both deep and rapid amyloid plaque clearance are required for optimal drug efficacy. With this new data we presented last week, we have now linked degree of amyloid plaque reduction with degree of clinical benefit as well as degree of amyloid plaque reduction with degree of benefit on brain tau pathology which is itself linked to clinical benefit. As displayed on slide 17, we have just recently obtained data with our plasma tau biomarker, phospho-tau217. These new data demonstrate that amyloid plaque clearance with donanemab also resulted in reversal of the typical increases of phosphorylated tau seen in the blood, with decreases from baseline of more than 24% and a change from the untreated arm with a P value of less than 0.0001.This highly significant effect was seen as early as three months following initiation of treatment and could reflect a combination of less tau spread in the brain as well as less neuronal damage, which could account for tau leakage into the periphery. You can see on the right side of the slide that the effect on plasma tau is also correlated to degree of plaque reduction, with nearly every patient on treatment who achieved substantial plaque clearance showing flat or declining plasma phospho-tau. We are delighted to see the potential utility of P-tau217 not just for diagnosing disease but also for monitoring treatment efficacy.We believe this could be another important contribution to the Alzheimer's field. Finally, on slide 18, the significant relationship between plasma P-tau217 reduction and the slowing of cognitive decline is shown. This additional biomarker for efficacy links the donanemab mechanism of amyloid plaque clearance with positive effects on both clinical outcomes and tau pathology. These data suggest that patients who achieved a 30% decrease in P-tau217 from baseline showed more than 40% slowing of disease progression.The three main findings I just discussed, one, the consistency of clinical benefit across statistical methods; two, the correlation of plaque lowering to clinical benefits, the patients who achieved the greatest plaque clearance having the greatest opportunity for benefit; and three, the correlation between achieving complete plaque clearance and beneficial effects on tau pathologies seen in the brain and measured in the periphery, which themselves are predictors for a clinical benefit, strongly support the efficacy of donanemab and give us confidence that the remarkable levels of amyloid plaque clearance achieved by donanemab could translate into a meaningful breakthrough for patients.Moving to slide 19; accordingly, we've announced that we plan to submit to the FDA under the accelerated approval pathway before the end of this year based on data from completed studies, supplemented by additional safety data from the ongoing TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2 study. We remain focused on enrolling TRAILBLAZER 2 with the aim to replicate the positive results of TRAILBLAZER 1. Replication is important to overcome skepticism in the field. We hope that TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2 will generate important confirmatory data for patients, physicians and payers and help us understand how to make sure the right patient gets the right duration of therapy at the right stage of disease.We are pleased to announce today that we have closed screening for TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2 with an adequate number of subjects now in the trial's screening process to fully enroll the study. Given that conducting and processing imaging studies used during screening takes several weeks to complete, we expect that the final subject to complete screening procedures and receive their first dose of donanemab or placebo by the end of the third quarter, and the study will complete 18 months later. Given this progress in enrollment, we are confident that we will achieve the number and duration of drug exposures needed to appropriately characterize the safety profile of donanemab, allowing for regulatory submission by the end of this year.Discussions with the FDA are consistent with our prior statement supporting a submission before the end of 2021. I also want to provide a few comments on how we believe the National Coverage Determination opened for monoclonal antibody therapies targeting amyloid by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services may impact Lilly and donanemab. We believe this NCD is a clear opportunity to focus treatment on the patients most likely to benefit from amyloid-plaque-reducing therapies. This would align with our goals, which have long been to use advanced diagnostic tools to identify the right patients that can benefit the most from amyloid-reducing therapies.We're particularly encouraged that our progress with the plasma P-tau217 assay could open up broader access to diagnostic tools. Still, despite the advances in diagnostics and the promise of donanemab, we acknowledge the current skepticism in the national discussion, and we hope that each drug will be evaluated by payers and prescribers based on its own data. This could be particularly important given the data I've shared today, which suggests that the degree of donanemab's amyloid plaque clearance relates to clinical benefit. In summary, we look forward to submitting donanemab to the FDA later this year with the potential to bring a robust amyloid plaque clearing agent with limited treatment duration to market for early symptomatic Alzheimer's patients in 2022 with potential replicated clinical efficacy results expected in 2023.Transitioning now to Verzenio; on the last earnings call, we commented that FDA had asked to see an overall survival trend in favor of Verzenio in the monarchE trial in adjuvant breast cancer. We also noted that the OS data set is quite immature in the overall population which makes interpretation challenging. We have now provided to the FDA additional data from the monarchE study, and we were encouraged to see continued strengthening of the primary endpoint of Invasive Disease Free Survival, IDFS, as well as consistent benefit in the key secondary endpoint of Distant Recurrence Free Survival, DRFS.Of note, with this continued follow-up, we can now confirm this benefit extends beyond the two-year Verzenio treatment period. We look forward to disclosing this new analysis at a medical meeting this fall. Our discussions with the FDA have focused on the pre-specified subpopulation of patients with high Ki-67 index, a marker of increased cell proliferation. These patients have more aggressive disease and higher risk of relapse and, thus, are more mature for overall survival analysis. This group, which makes up approximately half of the monarchE population are demonstrating an overall survival trend that favors the treatment arm.And based on FDA feedback, we expected initial approval in adjuvant breast cancer in this population before the end of the year, in line with the current review cycle. Importantly, since the IDFS and DRFS hazard ratios favoring Verzenio are similar in patients with high and low Ki-67 index, we expect that the OS trend first seen in the Ki-67 high population will in time be replicated in the broader study population. We hope to expand the label to the entire enrolled population in the future once we see more overall survival events in the broader population. To-date, regulators outside the U.S. have not raised the same questions on overall survival.Finally, moving to Olumiant, we shared in July that the FDA will not meet the PDUFA action date for the supplemental new drug application for atopic dermatitis. This delay is related to the FDA's ongoing assessment of JAK inhibitors. Patient safety is critical to Lilly, and we continue to further evaluate baricitinib's safety provide with ongoing randomized and observational safety studies. We're confident that the efficacy and safety data for baricitinib support a favorable benefit-risk profile for the treatment of atopic dermatitis, and we look forward to continuing to work with the FDA during the remainder of the review process. We do not have additional information on timing or specific action date from the FDA, but we see potential for regulatory action for atopic dermatitis in the U.S. later this year.We're committed to bringing Olumiant to market in the U.S. to help meet the needs of people living with atopic determine tie is the. Slide 20 shows select pipeline opportunities as of July 30, and slide 21 shows potential key events for the year. There have been several additional major developments since our last earnings call, and I'll cover these by therapeutic area. In May, we shared the positive results for tirzepatide in SURPASS 4 and announced that the SURPASS program met regulatory submission requirements for evaluating cardiovascular risk and confirmed our intention to submit a registration package for tirzepatide in Type 2 diabetes to global regulatory authorities by the end of 2021.At ADA in June, tirzepatide was a large focus as we shared detailed data for the first four studies from the tirzepatide SURPASS program for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes. These results support our belief that tirzepatide may represent a substantial improvement in the treatment of patients with Type 2 diabetes with early and unsurpassed improvements in A1C and body weight reduction across doses. We remain on track for global regulatory submissions before the end of this year. We are also excited about tirzepatide's opportunity across multiple indications including cardiovascular outcomes, obesity, NASH and heart failure.In Q2 we initiated SUMMIT, our planned Phase 3 study for tirzepatide in heart failure. In July, we achieved an important milestone with Jardiance, as the first and only medicine to achieve a primary endpoint for heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, or HFpEF. The EMPEROR-preserved Phase 3 trial met its primary endpoint and demonstrated significant risk reduction with Jardiance for the composite of cardiovascular death or hospitalization for heart failure in adults with HFpEF. This is a significant breakthrough for patients and we're proud of what we've achieved here in partnership with Boehringer Ingelheim.We look forward to presenting detailed results from this study at the European Society of Cardiology on August 27 and we expect to submit this indication to regulators later this year. We also received approval in the EU for Jardiance HFrEF in June and expect regulatory action in the U.S. and Japan later this year for this indication. Additionally, we've advanced our GGG tri-agonist into Phase 2 for diabetes based on the promising data we shared at ADA, which supports the potential for differentiated efficacy from tirzepatide with respect to bodyweight while maintaining glycemic control. We also started two Phase 1 studies for diabetes and cardiovascular disease.Lastly, we removed one of our oral GIP/GLP Phase 1 molecules from our pipeline. In Oncology we also continued to make important progress. Starting with Verzenio, we've initiated two Phase 3 studies since our last update. As planned, we've initiated an adjuvant study for HR+ HER2 breast cancer. And we are announcing today that a result -- as a result of a favorable blinded interim analysis for our Phase 2 trial in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, we've also initiated the Phase 3 portion of this adaptive study. This action was based on a recommendation from the Independent Data Monitoring Committee or IDMC.The IDMC reviewed interim efficacy and safety data and concluded that the results met the pre-specified expansion criteria based on radiographic progression-free survival and recommended advancing the study to the registrational Phase 3 stage. While Lilly remains blinded to the study, we are obviously very pleased with this development and have already begun dosing patients in the Phase 3 portion of this trial. Given that the expansion to Phase 3 includes the cohort of patients who were in the Phase 2 study, these data remain blinded, and we will not be disclosing these at medical meeting. On the development front in oncology, we also made progress with pirtobrutinib and our Oral SERD.We've initiated the Phase 3 study for pirtobrutinib in relapsed refractory MCL monotherapy, executing on our commitment to a robust Phase 3 program for this molecule. Regarding Oral SERD, we announced our plans to begin a Phase 3 study later in 2021 based on the Phase 1 results we shared at ASCO in June that showed an efficacy and safety profile in line with our expectations. In addition, we've now achieved the first human dose for our next generation KRAS G12C inhibitor. Lastly in oncology we announced that the FDA has accepted our submission of Sintilimab for non-small cell lung cancer.This submission is an encouraging start for our collaborative efforts with Innovent to make Sintilimab available in countries beyond China. In neurodegeneration, in addition to the donanemab news I just shared, we anticipate a Phase 2 readout for zagotenemab later this year and note that our GBA1 Gene Therapy asset from Prevail started a Phase 2 study in Type 2 Gaucher disease. For immunology we do not have additional significant updates in Q2, but we're looking forward to the Phase 3 readouts of lebrikizumab in atopic dermatitis and baricitinib for Lupus later this year.We also submitted baricitinib for alopecia areata in Japan. Lastly, we're moving our COVID-19 antibody therapy LY-CoV1404 now known as BEBTELOVIMAB into Phase 2 to address viral variants as part of our ongoing commitment to help combat COVID-19 if needed. To recap, Q2 was another positive quarter for R&D at Lilly, and we're excited about a number of further readouts and important milestones coming later this year, reflecting continued advances on behalf of patients suffering from disease.Now, I'll turn the call back over to Dave for some closing remarks.David A. Ricks -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks a lot, Dan. Appreciate that. Before we go to Q&A, let me sum up the progress we've made during this quarter. We've seen strength in our core business in the first half of this year and increased momentum in Q2. This is driven by strong volume driven growth across key brands and most major geographies. We're pleased to see sequential top line growth this quarter as well as year-over-year margin expansion. We made significant progress developing new medicines. And Q2 was another positive quarter for our pipeline as we announced plans to submit tirzepatide in Type 2 diabetes and donanemab in Alzheimer's disease later this year, as well as an approval for Jardiance in HFrEF and, as Dan outlined, positive results in HFpEF.We returned nearly $800 million to shareholders through dividends and completed $500 million in share repurchases, reflecting confidence in the ongoing strength of our business. As we look forward to the rest of the year, we're quite confident in our long-term prospects. Before we move on to Q&A I would also like to share that we will hold a live investor meeting this December to highlight our R&D pipeline and progress for our investors.We will also provide our initial 2022 guidance at this meeting. Given the limited physical space available, this event will have an accompanying webcast. We're hopeful that we can host this event in person but are watching the evolution of the pandemic closely and will adjust accordingly to a virtual event if needed. Our IR team will be in contact in the coming weeks to issue invitations and provide more logistical details on this meeting.Now, let me turn it over to Kevin to moderate our Q&A session.Kevin Hern -- Investor RelationsThanks Dave. We'd like to take questions from as many callers as possible, so we ask that you limit your questions to two per caller. Lois, can you please provide the instructions for the Q&A session and then we're ready for the first caller?