  OperatorGood morning. My name is Dee Tamara, and I will be your operator today. Welcome to Moderna's first-quarter earnings call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that the call is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Lavina Talukdar, head, investor relations at Moderna. Please proceed.Lavina Talukdar -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Dee Tamara. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call to discuss Moderna's first-quarter 2021 financial results and business updates. You can access the press release issued this morning, as well as the slides that we'll be reviewing by going to the investors section of our website. On today's call are Stephane Bancel, our chief executive officer; David Meline, our chief financial officer; Stephen Hoge, our president; Tal Zaks, our chief medical officer; Corinne Le Goff, our chief commercial officer; and Juan Andres, our chief technical and operations officer. Before we begin, please note that this conference call will include forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please see Slide 2 of the accompanying presentation and our SEC filings for important risk factors that could cause our actual performance and results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise the information provided on this call as a result of new information or future results or developments.On Slide 3, please see the important indication and safety information for our COVID-19 vaccine. which has been authorized for emergency use in the United States and many other countries around the world. I will now turn the call over to Stephane. Stephane Bancel -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Lavina. Good morning, or good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for taking the time to join our Q1 2021 conference call. We'll start by a quick business review of the quarter before Corinne walks you through commercial update. David will then walk you through the key financials. Stephen will provide a clinical update, especially new human data about two of our COVID-19 booster candidates, mRNA-1273, the currently authorized vaccine; and mRNA-1273.351, the variant specific booster to B.1.351 first identified in South Africa. I will then come back to close. The Moderna COVID-19 vaccine is now available and protecting people in 37 countries around the world. And with the WHO authorization last Friday night, the number of countries where our vaccine will be available, will go up significantly. In the first quarter alone, 102 million doses have been shipped and many tens of millions of people have been fully vaccinated or received their first dose. 12 months ago, in Q1 2020, Moderna had never ran a Phase 3 clinical study, never gotten a product authorized by a regulator and never made 100 million doses in a single quarter, not even 10 million, not even 1 million doses. I am very proud of what the Moderna team has achieved, but most importantly, I am very thankful for their impact on the world and the incredible personal sacrifices that our team has made toward protect fellow human beings around the world. This is very humbling, and I'm fortunate to lead Moderna in this moment. I'm also thankful for Moderna scientists, engineers, doctors and team members who have worked relentlessly over the last 10 years now to be ready for when the virus emerged in late 2019. We invented technology to produce safe, well-tolerated mRNA vaccines, which made it possible for us to chase the SARS. The company achieved revenues of $1.9 billion in Q1 2021 of which $1.7 billion were COVID-19 vaccine product sales.

 



 The net income for the period was $1.2 billion. This marks the company's first GAAP profitable quarter in its history after nine years of operating losses. At the end of 2021, we had cash and cash investments of $8.2 billion. David will give you more details in a few minutes. We increased our 2021 supply forecast once again. We now believe that we should be able to supply 800 million doses in 2021, and we're still aiming for 1 billion doses over the year. The total advanced purchase agreements signed for delivery in 2021 have been increased to $19.2 billion. We are happy to report this morning an interim update to our TeenCOVE study. The initial interim analysis of our Phase 2-3 TeenCOVE study of mRNA-1273 showed the vaccine efficacy against COVID-19 over 96% and mRNA-1273 was generally well tolerated with no serious safety concern identified to date. We're also on track to start this month the filing of our rolling BLA to the FDA for COVID-19 vaccine mRNA-1273, a type of COVID, we added another first as a company. And that gives the dosing of our first patient with an mRNA for our therapeutics candidate against a rare genetic disease, propionic acidemia a genetic deficiency in the liver with a candidate mRNA-3927. One of the things that I'm the most excited about is where we are going. The Q1 results highlighted above of the consequence of the last year work and decisions we made. So as I look to where Moderna is going, I get very excited by the level of our increased investments across the board. Using our strong balance sheet to invest to scale Moderna. These two numbers, awesome color. In Q1 2021, our R&D investments were approximately four times higher than the R&D investments in Q1 of last year, not 4%, not 40%, four times higher. For all of you who have known us for many years, Moderna has been built as a digital enterprise since the early days. But we now have the opportunity to do much more and to build new functions like clinical trial operations, pharmacovigilance, commercial, digitally from the get-go. So looking at the next five to 10 years, we're investing intensively in digital, automation and AI. Our plan for 2021 is to invest three times more in digital than in fiscal-year 2020. We announced last week that we have decided to invest to increase our 2020 supply to up to 3 billion doses. Let me share with you why we decided to recommend to our board to invest at that scale. First, let's talk about the science of SARS-CoV-2 virus. New variants of concern continue to emerge around the world. And we believe that over the next six months as the southern hemisphere enter its foreign winter, we could see more variants of concern emerge. We have said for right now that we believe booster shots will be needed as we believe that the virus is not going away. We also believe from the scientific standpoint, that the highest efficacy booster over time will be provided by multivalent variant-specific booster. Second, the market has changed quite a lot versus what we knew six months ago. First, mRNA vaccines have emerged as the best-in-class vaccines, high efficacy, good tolerability profile, having to scale manufacturing and speed to chase the variants in the clinic. Many companies are still in the clinic with their first-generation vaccine, where we're in a clinic with variant-specific boosters. More importantly, as we are looking to throw our nets around the world, in the West and in the East, in the North and in the South, we are hearing loud and clear from the market, supply us with more mRNA vaccine for primary series and supply us with more mRNA vaccine in the future for boosters for 2022 and 2023. There is a big shift versus what the market perceived six or nine or 12 months ago, when protein vaccine or adeno vaccines were thought to be the answer to the pandemic. We believe it has become an mRNA market for COVID-19 vaccine. Third is rollout pipeline. We believe we will bring to market several more products in the next few years as we add to this market demand for COVID-19 boosters vials, flu vaccine as we discussed at the vaccine day. And our goal is to have a seasonal flu vaccine combined with COVID variant booster in a single-dose product. We saw strong clinical data for RSV vaccine and CMV vaccine. Plus we have seven programs in clinical studies in three therapeutics area and more programs to move from preclinical development to clinical studies in the months to come. So we decided to build capacity to deliver up to 3 billion dose of supply in 2022 to share both the North and the South. We are doubling our drug substance supply in Europe and increasing by 50% of drug substance supply in the U.S. We are, of course, adding filling capacity in the U.S. and Europe at our existing partners, but also adding new ones as we speak, more to come. Another clinical feedback we're hearing from the market is that Moderna has a best-in-class mRNA vaccine. Shipment of minus 20 Celsius in storage, not minus 70 celsius. Small cartons of 100 doses. Storage up to six months in standard freezer and four weeks in regular repurchase temperatures. The only authorized mRNA vaccine that does not require on-site dilution. We believe this is an even more important feature today, but will be more in the future in '21 and '22 and '23 as we move to a booster market decentralized in pharmacies and in a doctor's office. We believe we have the best mRNA vaccine authorized, and we continue to improve our product to continue to have a best-in-class product of the mRNA market. We were delighted to announce this morning the start of a dosing of our first patient in our Phase 1-2 study with propionic acidemia disease. The study is called Paramount. It is yet another milestone for Moderna. Not only do we have, I believe, the most innovative infectious vaccine clinical pipeline, but we also have therapeutic candidates in clinical studies in oncology, in cardiology and now in a rare genetic disease. Let me close my remarks on this familiar slide. We now have 1,500 employees. We have recently incorporated Moderna Japan K.K. And we'll continue to build our commercial network. We will push to Asia Pacific in 2021. And given our strong balance sheet of $8.2 billion, we're going to continue to accelerate and invest to allow Moderna to scale and maximize the impact of our broad mRNA platform to help as many people as we can. Let me share our perspective on yesterday afternoon announcement by the United States Trade Ambassador that the U.S. government will ship off waving intellectual property protection for COVID-19 vaccines. We believe this will not help supply more mRNA vaccines to the world any faster in 2021 or in 2022, which is the most critical time of the pandemic. There is no idle mRNA manufacturing capacity in the world. There is no industry of talented individuals who are skilled in the art of making high-quality and high-purity GMP-grade mRNA vaccines. There are no companies who have developed manufacturing processes, purification processes and medical processes that would allow them to quickly run a clinical trial. And if approved by regulators around the world, then provide hundreds of millions or billions of supply of mRNA vaccine. We have announced in the company's statement issued October 8, 2020 that during the pandemic, Moderna will not enforce COVID-19-related patents. You can find that statement on our website. We believe that the best way to end the pandemic is what we are currently doing. First, to maximize supply in 2021 to protect as many people as we can. Second, to build additional capacity, which we have announced last week to get up to $3 billion of authorized mRNA vaccines for 2022, 2023 and beyond. And third, to continue to adapt the vaccine to have a highest efficacy vaccine with variant-specific booster for which we announced a very encouraging clinical results yesterday. Let me now turn to Corinne to give you a commercial update. Corinne?Corinne Le Goff -- Chief Commercial Officer Thank you, Stephane. And good morning, or good afternoon, everyone. As all of you already know, Moderna's COVID-19 vaccine is our first authorized product. And on the back of it, we have turned into a commercial company very quickly. So today, I'm delighted to give you an update on the commercial progress in the first quarter. I will start with our most recently signed supply agreements, those that occurred in the first quarter and at the beginning of the second quarter this year. I am particularly happy to announce our agreement with COVAX, which will provide access to our vaccine to millions of people in low- and middle-income countries and is in keeping with our global access principles. In total, our COVAX agreement is for 500 million doses for delivery in the 2021 and 2022 period. Specifically, in 2021, Moderna will begin delivery of 34 million doses in the fourth quarter of 2021. COVAX will have an option for an additional 466 million doses in 2022. We are grateful to all the collaborative efforts of CEPI, Gavi, UNICEF, the World Health Organization and the Moderna commercial teams in making this important supply agreement a reality. Moving now to the additional supply agreements signed for both 2021 and '22. We have signed additional supply agreements with Israel for 5.3 million doses in 2022 with an additional option of 17.3 million doses for '22 and '23. And with Switzerland for 7 million doses in 2022 and options for an additional 7 million in late 2022 and '23. We have also signed new deals for '21 delivery with Botswana, Brunei. And in addition, we have also signed an agreement with Zuellig Pharma, our distribution partner,in Southeast Asia, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. In total, we announced advanced purchase agreements totaling 845 million doses to be delivered in 2021 to the countries that are listed here on the slide. And we continue to have discussions with countries, who those we have already contracted with and new countries for supply in 2022 and beyond. In our discussions, as Stephane said, we are hearing consistently from governments that in their view, there is no other technology that provides the high efficacy of mRNA vaccines and the speed necessary to adapt to variants, while at the same time, allowing reliable scalability of manufacturing. We are grateful for the trust placed in us from the various governments we have signed agreements with, and we look forward to supplying the vaccine to other countries and helping end the pandemic and getting ahead of variance. Let me now turn to product sales. Our first -- our product sales for the first quarter of this year were $1.73 billion and were recorded for the delivery of 102 million doses. Product sales in the U.S. were approximately $1.4 billion and sales outside of the U.S. to the EU, Canada, Switzerland, Israel and Singapore were approximately $400 million for the 14 million doses delivered in the first quarter. In the U.S., we have successfully completed the delivery of the first 100 million doses to the U.S. government within 100 days of emergency use authorization. And we expect to complete the delivery of the second 100 million doses to the United States government before the end of the second quarter. As you know, the U.S. production started earlier and is roughly one quarter ahead in production ramp. As such, in the second quarter of '21, we expect the ex-U.S. ramp to be similar to that of the U.S. ramp in the first quarter. To close, I want to reiterate that as we continue to produce and roll out vaccines into the global market, we are humbled and proud to be part of the solution. I will now turn the call over to David Meline.David Meline -- Chief Financial Officer OK, thank you, Corinne. Today, as with our last earnings call, we are presenting our results primarily on a U.S. GAAP basis. In some cases, we also provide additional detail to provide greater clarity on underlying trends. With this background, we are providing an analysis of actual 2021 first-quarter results, along with an updated view of key drivers of financial performance going forward. Turning to Slide 18. Total revenue was $1.9 billion in the first quarter of 2021 compared to $8 million in Q1 of last year. Following our first-ever product sales of $200 million in December 2020, we recorded product sales of $1.7 billion for our COVID-19 vaccine in the first quarter of 2021. Grant and collaboration revenue increased to $204 million in Q1, primarily due to increases in grant revenue from BARDA to accelerate development of our COVID-19 vaccine. Cost of sales were $193 million in the first quarter, benefiting substantially from previously expensed pre-commercial inventory costs, which I will discuss in more detail on a later slide. Research and development expenses were $401 million for Q1 2021, compared to $115 million for the same period in 2020. The higher spend was driven by increased COVID-19 vaccine clinical development activities, including our announced efforts around booster, variant-specific and multivalent vaccine candidates. Headcount increases, as well as pharmacovigilance activities related to our COVID-19 vaccine also contributed to the year-on-year expense increase. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $77 million for Q1 2021, compared to $24 million for the same period in the prior year. The growth in spending was driven by increases in personnel, outside services and costs associated with commercialization of our COVID-19 vaccine globally. Our provision for income taxes was $39 million in Q1 2021, reflecting a benefit from the utilization of our net operating loss carryforward, as well as discrete items. I will provide further context on the following slides. We recorded net income of $1.2 billion for Q1 of this year, compared to a net loss of $124 million in the same period of last year. Earnings per share on a diluted basis was $2.84. Please note that our share count on a diluted basis now also includes the effect of outstanding options and RSUs as we began to be profitable. Previously, when we were in a net loss position, basic and reported diluted number of shares were the same. Turning to cash and selected cash flow information on Slide 19. We ended Q1 2021 with cash and investments of $8.2 billion compared to $5.2 billion at the end of Q4 2020. The increase is driven by our commercial sales and additional customer deposits received in the first quarter for future purchases of our COVID-19 vaccine. Net cash provided by operating activities was $2.97 billion in Q1 of this year, compared to net cash used in operating activities of $106 million in Q1 of last year. The reversal from net operating cash outflow to cash inflow was driven by our commercial market entry for the entire quarter. Similar to last quarter, before providing an updated financial framework for the remainder of 2021, let me summarize a few areas from our Q1 results that are important to keep in mind when modeling expected 2021 financial performance. Starting with product sales on Slide 20. We started last year to build two distinct supply chains, one in the U.S. and one outside the U.S. for rest of world markets. Our supply chain scale up in the U.S. was roughly one quarter in advance of our ex U.S. supply chain, which is reflected in the geographic sales mix in Q1. As we move forward in Q2, the ex U.S. supply chain is also ramping up toward full capability. Turning to Slide 21. Cost of sales includes the cost of goods manufactured, logistics and warehousing costs, as well as third-party royalty costs. We began capitalizing our COVID-19 vaccine inventory costs in December of 2020, following the COVID-19 vaccine emergency use authorization based upon our expectation that these inventory costs would be recoverable through commercialization of the vaccine. Prior to the authorization of our COVID-19 vaccine, inventory costs were recorded as research and development expenses in the period incurred. We expensed $242 million of prelaunch inventory costs in 2020 and started 2021 with the remaining balance of $187 million of zero cost inventory. Almost the entire balance, or $184 million was sold and benefited our cost of sales in Q1 of this year, and hence, will not further impact future quarters in a material way. If inventory sold during the first quarter was valued at actual cost, our cost of sales would have been $377 million or 22% of our product sales somewhat favorable to what we expected, driven by favorable yields in our U.S. production facilities. Now turning to our cash and investment position on Slide 22. The cash and investment balance reported as of March 31 was $8.2 billion, up from $5.2 billion as of December 31, 2020. The increase is primarily driven by the net increase in customer deposits for future product supply of COVID-19 vaccine. The net balance of cash customer deposits increased from $2.8 million at the end of December 2020 to $5.6 billion at the end of Q1 '21. Lastly, let me comment on tax-related items on Slide 23. The significant investments in our research, development and start-up activities to develop the mRNA platform over the last decade have resulted in net operating loss carryforwards, with a balance of $2.3 billion at the end of 2020. As of December 31, 2020, we maintained a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets related to these loss carryforwards. We performed a valuation allowance assessment during each reporting period based on the latest available financial information and outlook. After considering the weight of available evidence, both positive and negative, we concluded that as of March 31, it is more likely than not that the company will be able to realize the substantial majority of its net deferred tax assets. This analysis included not only our strong first-quarter results, but also our April activity. The majority of the valuation allowance will flow through the P&L over the course of 2021 in our effective tax rate prorated based on the cadence of our expected pre-tax quarterly earnings. We also recorded two discrete benefits in our tax provision in Q1, which lowered our first quarter tax rate. The first benefit related to the valuation allowance release for the portion of deferred tax assets, which we expect to utilize in future years. The second related to the excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation. Turning now to the 2021 updated financial framework on Slide 24. Signed advanced purchase agreements for expected delivery in 2021 reflect a current full-year total of $19.2 billion in anticipated product sales including doses that have been delivered and recognized as revenue in Q1. Based on continuous progress to ramp up available supply capacity in our network, we have raised the lower end of our global manufacturing plan for 2021 from 700 million to 800 million doses at the 100-microgram dose level. Our manufacturing team and our partners are still working to supply up to 1 billion doses for 2021. Further, we continue to expect a range of deliveries in Q2 2021 of 200 million to 250 million doses. Our total cost of sales includes the cost of manufacturing, logistics and warehousing and third-party royalties. For 2021, we continue to model average total cost of sales as a percent of product sales to be approximately 20% for the full year with some variation quarter by quarter, largely driven by average selling price going forward. Now let me comment on planned R&D and SG&A expenses. Q1 expenses of approximately $0.5 billion were stable compared to the underlying Q4 2020 expense run rate on a like-for-like basis. In Q1, our actual expenses were lower than the internal forecast primarily driven by the timing of clinical development and commercial activities and related costs. We now expect a notable expense trend increase starting in Q2 on a quarter-over-quarter basis for the remainder of this year. Based on better visibility of the utilization of our accumulated net operating loss carryforward, expected global sales mix and the mentioned discrete benefits in Q1, we now expect our all-in 2021 tax rate to be in the low teens. This compares to our previous forecast in the mid-teen range. This forecast is based on current U.S. tax policy in effect and does not include any future potential discrete benefits related to stock-based compensation. We will update this view as our business evolves further. Finally, regarding capital investments, we are raising our forecast for capital investment from our previous range of $350 million to $400 million for 2021 to $450 million to $550 million, including the planned capacity expansion investments as announced on April 29. This concludes my remarks concerning financial performance, and I now turn the call over to Stephen.Stephen Hoge -- President Thank you, David. I'll begin with an overview of our COVID-19 strategy against variants of concern and the initial data from our Phase 2 booster vaccination study before ending with a summary of the rest of our pipeline. And before I go into the data, a reminder that our booster strategy is evaluating single-dose booster vaccinations with three different mRNA vaccines: 50 micrograms of mRNA-1273; 50 micrograms of mRNA-1273.351, both of which have data available today and what I will discuss in just a moment; and a multivalent booster vaccine candidate, which combines a 50-50 mix of mRNA-1273 and mRNA-1273.351 in a single vaccine. In addition, we're also evaluating a lower 20-microgram dose of mRNA-1273.351. Data from the multivalent booster and the 20-microgram booster of 351 will be shared when available. And with that backdrop, let's move to the data. Starting with safety, local and systemic adverse events within seven days after a booster dose of either -1273 or -1273.351 were generally comparable to those observed after the second dose of -1273 in our previously reported Phase 2 study and our Phase 3 COVE study. The majority of the events were mild or moderate in severity and Grade 3 events occurred with a frequency of approximately 15% in participants who received -1273 and approximately 10% in participants who received -1273.351. The most commonly reported solicited local events were injection site pain and the most commonly reported systemic events were fatigue, headache, myalgia and arthralgia. There were no grade four events reported. On the next slide, are figures from two papers. The figure on the left-hand side were published in the New England Journal of Medicine and show the difference in neutralization of SARS-CoV-2 pseudoviruses in serum samples one week after vaccination with a primary series of mRNA-1273. Recall that there was a sixfold decrease in neutralization titers against the B.1.351 variant, the variant first identified in the Republic of South Africa; and a threefold drop in titers against P.1, the variant first described in Brazil. And again, as a reminder, these neutralizing titer levels were from serum samples one week after the second dose of the primary vaccine series of mRNA-1273. So essentially, these titers are close to peak levels. On the right-hand side of the slide is a figure from the preprint manuscript of our initial results from our Phase 2 study posted yesterday at Bio Archive. The figures show the neutralization titer levels of the participants in our Phase 2 booster study immediately before their booster vaccinations. A reminder that these individuals were previously vaccinated with a primary series of mRNA-1273 in either our Phase 2 or Phase 3 studies, roughly six to eight months prior to enrolling in this booster study. At this time point, titers against wild-type SARS-CoV-2 remained high with almost all participants having detectable titers. But titers against B.1.351 and P1, the variants of concern were much lower. In fact, approximately half of participants had titers below the assays limit of quantitation at this time point. So it is clear that waning of titers is apparent, both with time and that lower titers against variants of concern lead to more rapid loss of neutralizing activity. Turning to the next slide. The data shows that two weeks after booster vaccines of either mRNA-1273 or -1273.351 neutralizing tighter levels increased against both the wild-type virus, as well as the B.1.351 and P1 variants of concern. In fact, following boost, geometric mean titers against the three variants tested increased to levels similar to or higher than previously reported peak titers against the ancestral strain following primary vaccination. When looking specifically at the GMTs of the different strains, we achieved levels of 1,400 after booster vaccination with mRNA-1273.351 against the 351 variant. This compares against the GMT of 864 when boosting with mRNA-1273. Vaccination with mRNA-1273.351 was more effective at narrowing the gap in neutralizing titers between wild-type and B.1.351 viruses relative to boosting with mRNA-1273. Now we're encouraged by this initial data, and we're excited to see additional data over time from these arms, as well as the data from the multivalent arm and a lower dose arm of mRNA-1273.351. On the next slide, I would like to highlight one last comparison from the manuscript. On the left hand is a sample of participants from the Phase 1 study and they're neutralizing titers against ancestral strain following a primary vaccination series with mRNA-1273. GMT is achieved in this assay approximately 1,500. On the right-hand side is a reproduction of the data we just spoke through, looking at neutralizing titers, and I'm specifically highlighting the neutralizing titers against the B.1.351 variant of concern. A booster dose of 50 micrograms of mRNA-1273, the top bar, was able to increase titers to a level of 864 in this study. That compares with a booster dose of 50 micrograms of 1273.351, which was able to get to titers against the variant of concern as high as 1,400 in the study. We'll continue to closely watch this data, and as I mentioned a moment ago, look forward to subsequent updates and time points. On Slide 31 is a snapshot of our vaccine development candidates that are in or entering the clinic. I'll highlight a few. Our CMV vaccine is on track to start a pivotal Phase 3 study in 2021. Our Zika vaccine is expected to begin a Phase 2 study also in 2021. Our hMPV/PIV3 respiratory combo vaccine is currently enrolling in toddlers. And at our vaccines day last month, we announced positive interim Phase 1 data from our RSV vaccine, mRNA-1345. This continues in pediatric and older adult cohorts of that Phase 1 study are still enrolling. Finally, within our flu vaccine program, we expect a Phase 1 study of mRNA-1010 to begin in 2021. Outside of vaccines, we have seven clinical proof-of-concept trials ongoing across four modalities. Our VEGF program partnered with AstraZeneca is enrolling in a Phase 2. Our personalized cancer vaccine program partnered with Merck is also enrolling in a Phase 2 trial. And KRAS, our second program partnered with Merck is ongoing in a Phase 1 study. Within intratumoral immuno-oncology, our Phase 2 dose expansion in OX40 ligand, Phase 1 Triplet and Phase 1 IL-2 study, which is partnered with AstraZeneca, are all still ongoing. Finally, as Stephane mentioned, we are pleased to have started dosing in the Paramount study in propionic acidemia. On Slide 33, you can see our full development pipeline. In addition to our large portfolio of infectious disease vaccines, we now have seven therapeutic programs in the clinic. I'll now turn the call over to Stephane. Thank you so much.Stephane Bancel -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Stephen, Corinne and David. Our 2021 advanced purchase agreement signed have now been increased to $19.2 billion. As we look into 2022, we are investing to distribute and dose supply capacity because we believe the market need -- could be greater in 2022 than in 2021. First, we already have countries signing APAs for 2022 for prime series for children but also for variant-specific boosters. Israel last week and Switzerland this morning. If you recall, there were some of the first countries who signed APAs in 2020. And again, these countries are ahead of the game for 2022 and 2023. Second, with the COVAX partnership announced Monday, we anticipate to supply up to 466 million doses in 2022. Third, we're having active discussions with all the governments that have signed 2021 APAs with Moderna. For new APAs for 2022 deliveries, again, prime series but also boosters. Fourth, we're having numerous discussions with government that do not have 2021 APAs with Moderna because we cannot supply them in 2021, unfortunately. But many of these governments are already asking us to enter into 2022 APAs because they want high efficacy mRNA vaccines that are easy to store. This is why we decided to invest for more supply in 2022. We believe from our current deals and current discussions that the market wants more supply from us in 2022 than we can supply in 2021. As we look at the next five to 10 years, we have the most innovative vaccine pipeline in the industry. And we're investing more in research to increase our impact by bringing to the clinic, more innovative vaccines against viruses that hurt humans. We are now in the clinic in three therapeutic areas: oncology, cardiology and rare disease and soon, we should be in the clinic in autoimmune disease as well. We are continuing to innovate and invest in science, like, for example, for delivering mRNA in the lung with our partner, Vertex. As we continue to prepare Moderna to scale and to have 10 times more impact, we are investing aggressively. We are accelerating our investments in digital, automation and AI. From a spend of $27 million in 2019, we invested around $60 million in 2020 in digital. We're planning to almost triple that $170 million in 2021. We're investing across the world in R&D to ensure high quality to accelerate the pace of learning and to ensure we can transform clinical operations. We are investing in digital to ensure high-quality, high scalability for manufacturing. We are building commercial so that we can commercialize our pipeline in a highly efficient and effective manner. We want to change the big pharma paradigm of large, inefficient and expensive sales force and advertising spend to promote me-too drugs. Our pipeline is first-in-class medicine that patients and doctors are waiting for. We want to enable our corporate functions, HR, legal, finance and so on to scale without creating large corporate organization. I'm also excited that we are launching an AI Academy. Today, we have some exciting pockets of excellence in AI across the company. But AI is not yet part of our DNA. The reason is simple, most companies don't do AI. So as we grow and hire new talent, they have great skills in their heart, but few have been exposed to AI in their previous company. We want AI to be how we run the business in science, in clinical development, in manufacturing quality in commercial, in HR and finance, everywhere. It is the same change management revolution as 20 to 30 years ago when personal computers entered the workforce. We want everything at Moderna to understand and use AI in everything we do. AI will become part of our DNA. As many of you know, we have built integrated digital system connected to each other. And as we have more systems, we get more data. As we get more data, we learn faster. And we keep building and creating a network cycle. Between our strong balance sheet, our mRNA platform, our team, our culture and our digital infrastructure, I believe our belief to scale Moderna is unique in the biopharmaceutical industry. As part of scaling Moderna, there is software, better so very value added. Many of you were at the opening of a Norwood manufacturing site in July 2018 or you came to visit after the opening. Our building is around 200,000 square feet. We call it Moderna Technology Center South or MTC South. In 2020, we added the building next to it and added around 245,000 square feet and called it MTC North. We are pleased to announce this week that we now have access to a new building, MTC East, which will start welcoming Moderna employees later this year after some maybe investment and renovation to the building. That is another 240,000 square feet. So we're now having in MTC access to around 650,000 square feet. We now hold the building on this campus, and we can also add more buildings and build them now that we have the entire campus. We are deeply committed about building a company that has a strong sense of responsibility. We want Moderna to be a positive force in the world, not only for our medicines, but also by who we are as a company. We are very committed to belong, inclusion and diversity. We recently published or expanded workforce diversity figures for the first time. Last year, we signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion pledge. And we have also reiterated our ongoing commitment to increasing diversity in our clinical trials. We are deeply committed to the environment. We have decided to source our Norwood and Cambridge site with renewable energy and will offset any energy that is not from renewable sources, and we will be working on our target as to when we should be a net-zero carbon company. We also encouraging our employees with a positive impact on the communities in which we live and volunteer, from cleaning the Charles River in Cambridge, to feeding the homeless and stem education and much more. You can find a lot of resources online on our website. As I close, I want to convey how thankful we are at Moderna to have a chance to do what we do. Every day, we come to work to make innovative medicine using the first information platform of a biopharmaceutical industry. My colleagues and I work and collaborate to make more medicines to protect or treat people. I am proud of what the team has done over the last 10 years to get us to this stage. Over the last 14 months, since we started chasing SARS-CoV-2 virus. And in Q1, as we continue to execute relentlessly. But as I look at the future of Moderna, I believe we have a chance over the next five, 10, 20 years to transform medicines potentially like no other company has ever changed medicine. This is just the beginning. Before taking your questions, I would like to remind you that we will be hosting our Annual Science Day in a few weeks on May 27. You are going to work to connect this event as Stephen and his team have some very cool new things to share with you. And later at the end of the summer, on September 9, our annual R&D day for holistic clinical update. Operator, we'll be happy to take any questions now. 