
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Aptiv Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Elena Rosman, Aptiv's Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.Elena Rosman -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Anna. Good morning, and thank you for joining Aptiv's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. The press release and related tables, along with the slide presentation, can be found on the Investor Relations portion of our website at ir.aptiv.com. Today's review of our financials exclude restructuring and other special items and will address the continuing operations of Aptiv. The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures for both our Q2 financials as well as our outlook for the full year 2021 are included in the back of the slide presentation and the earnings press release. Turning to the next slide. During today's call, we will be providing certain forward-looking information, which reflect Aptiv's current view of future financial performance, and may be materially different from our actual performance for reasons that we cite in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings, including uncertainties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and the difficulty in predicting its future course and impact on the supply chain and global economy. Joining us today will be Kevin Clark, Aptiv's President and CEO; and Joe Massaro, CFO and Senior Vice President of Business Operations. Kevin will provide a strategic update on the business, and Joe will cover the financial results and the updated outlook in more detail before we open the call to Q&A.With that, I would like to turn the call over to Kevin Clark.Kevin P. Clark -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Elena, and thank you, everyone, for joining us this morning. Beginning with Slide three. Aptiv's first half performance, which includes record growth over market and record new business awards, validates the strength of our portfolio of market-relevant technologies and our success keeping our customers running in a challenging environment. Revenues in the second quarter were $3.8 billion, an increase of 85%, lapping prior year shutdowns in North America and Europe, and representing 17 points of growth over underlying vehicle production. Operating income and earnings per share in the second quarter totaled $301 million and $0.60, respectively, meaningfully impacted by ongoing COVID-related expenses as well as the increased supply chain disruption and input costs resulting from material shortages. Despite these headwinds, which we expect to somewhat ease during the balance of the year, we're raising our outlook for the full year, driven by continued strong customer demand for our solutions, continuing our track record of outperformance and value creation for all stakeholders. Turning to slide four. Our updated 2021 outlook also reflects our flexible and sustainable business model, which positions us to support the record number of customer program launches that are driving incremental volume and market share gains this year, while mitigating the supply chain headwinds.

 



As I mentioned, we expect the supply chain tightness to begin easing over the next few months, and we're happy with consumer demand levels, and our customers intend to make up as much of the first half production shortfalls as possible, which is the reason we've made no change to our outlook for growth in global vehicle production, which we still expect to be roughly 10% for the full year. At the same time, the demand for our portfolio of advanced technologies is benefiting from the acceleration of the safe, green and connected megatrends, which has led to an increase in our outlook for revenue growth and growth over market from 6% to approximately 10% for the year. Our team is diligently working to efficiently launch high-complexity programs in the Advanced Safety and User Experience segment, while we also delivered on the launch of a record number of high-voltage electrification programs in our Signal and Power Solutions segment. That said, it will continue to be more expensive to operate in the current environment, as customers cancel production shifts in idle plants in response to supply chain constraints, creating temporary labor inefficiencies in our operations and input costs increase as a result of material shortages, both of which have been factored into our updated full year outlook.Our sourcing and commercial teams are actively pursuing recovery actions with suppliers and with customers, and our engineering teams are developing and validating product redesigns, providing access to incremental sources of supply and helping to offset the impact of increased input costs. Setting the near-term challenges aside, we're performing very well and continue to proactively position Aptiv for the future by investing in high-growth, high-margin technologies that further enhance the resiliency of our business and by leveraging our unique brain and nervous system capabilities to deliver more content on the electrified software-defined vehicles of the future, which, taken together, yield accretive growth opportunities on the path to the software-defined vehicle enabled through Smart Vehicle Architecture or SVA, as evidenced by our recent bookings and the size and quality of our new business pursuit pipeline. As shown on slide five, second quarter new business bookings reached $6 billion, bringing the year-to-date total to a record $11.2 billion. Our unique portfolio of advanced technologies, combined with our flawless operating execution, has positioned us as a partner of choice for our customers by enabling the transition to new architectures and software-defined features with our optimized solutions that enhance system's performance while also lowering the vehicle's total cost.Our brain and nervous system capabilities and holistic platform approach sets us apart, while global scale and execution capabilities have allowed us to increase our share of wallet with both traditional and emerging OEM customers and strengthen our overall competitive position, which you'll hear more about in our upcoming segment discussions. Turning to the highlights from our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment on slide six. Second quarter revenues increased 83%, 15 points over market, reflecting the benefit of new program launches and content gains, which translated into strong growth over market in our active safety product line and continued growth in our user experience and connectivity and security product lines despite the supply chain constraints impacting the segment. Consumers are demanding more safety and connectivity features in their vehicles, which are increasingly delivered through software enabled by more advanced sensing and compute platforms. This presents us with additional opportunities to increase our customer share of wallet. The evolution of feature-rich, more automated vehicles is playing out just as we planned. We anticipated our customers' needs and took the actions necessary to position Aptiv as a strong collaboration partner.As a result, we're experiencing firsthand the commercial validation of SVA with nine advanced development programs underway or recently completed, which we're confident will lead to new customer awards during the next year. And a new business award during the second quarter from Great Wall Motors for the development of a central vehicle controller. This is a new high-performance compute platform that will first launch with Great Wall's Wey brand in 2023, which up-integrates critical body functions and controls the flow of data in and out of the vehicle, making it a first-to-market solution globally and also representing a key SVA commercial milestone. Moving to slide seven. We're in a pivotal point in our industry's transition as consumers want more advanced features for safety, comfort and convenience. More stringent regulations regarding CO2 emissions and lower battery costs are accelerating the industry's move to high-voltage electrification. And 5G technology and the cloud are creating opportunities to deliver vehicles that leverage connectivity, even more than they do today, all of which is being enabled through a significant increase in the amount of software going into the vehicle, providing us with increased software content and new business model opportunities.

 



To put the opportunity into context, the total automotive software market, which includes integration, feature development and validation and verification services, totals an estimated $30 billion today and is expected to grow to roughly $80 billion by 2030. This represents a significant opportunity for Aptiv. We're confident that we have a right to play across the full software stack with over 5,000 software engineers who successfully deploy advanced software solution across literally millions of vehicles with multiple OEM customers across the globe, including our advanced ADAS systems currently launching on the Jeep Grand Cherokee and Wagoneer, which includes radar, camera, perception and feature software, enabling 360-degree sensing and scalable ADAS functionality through L2+, and, with the addition of in-cabin sensing technology, will also include hands-free active driving assist. We're also helping to enable L2+ ADAS system capabilities for Ford as well as other OEMs, with our scalable ADAS platform, which includes modular software building blocks and industry-leading perception systems. And lastly, Volvo's Polestar two was first to market with native Android automotive running Google Automotive Services. Aptiv's Android-based software and hardware platform powers this best-in-class infotainment system and enables real-time over-the-air updates.These examples underscore Aptiv's software and systems capabilities as well as our role as a partner of choice, delivering more advanced, higher-value, margin-accretive solutions to our customers. Turning to slide eight. Our Signal and Power Solutions segment is the industry leader in high-speed, high-fidelity data transmission, multi-voltage electrical distribution and automotive-grade cable management and connection systems. Revenues increased 86% during the quarter, 18 points over market, driven by OEMs prioritizing the production of more highly contented vehicles as well as the increased production of high-voltage electrified vehicles resulting in increased demand for both our low-voltage and high-voltage architecture solutions and continued very strong demand for engineered components for applications in the automotive, commercial vehicle and industrial markets. We're well positioned to support our customers globally with a comprehensive portfolio of vehicle architecture solutions that leverage a high degree of vertical integration, which has translated into a significant increase in new business awards for high-voltage electrified platforms, where we've been able to design and deliver fully optimized vehicle architecture that provide up to a 40% reduction in weight and mass, significantly lowering the total system cost of an electrified vehicle platform, positioning us to have content of more than 50% of the battery electric vehicles launching over the next few years. In addition, several OEMs have asked us to help define their next-generation electrified vehicle architecture with advanced development programs, including a multi-voltage predevelopment partnership with a major German OEM on their premium electrified vehicle platform and development of the next-generation electrical architecture for a future battery electric vehicle platform with a major high-volume global OEM.These customer awards validate our leadership position, optimizing power and data distribution for new vehicle architectures that delivers significant value for our customers. Turning to slide nine. In June, we hosted our virtual electrification teach-in, which showcased our industry-leading high- and low-voltage technology portfolio, the accelerated outlook for the EV market and how those translate into sustainable and profitable growth for Aptiv. The recent increased demand for electric vehicles has been encouraging, but it's nothing compared to what's on the horizon. As governments around the world fuel a green recovery, never has Aptiv's value proposition had more meaning than it does today. The European Union recently proposed regulations calling for zero CO2 emissions from vehicles by 2035, and the U.S. administration has recommended targets for significantly higher EV penetration, both of which are driving an increase in commercial activity. Every major global customer has announced an increase in pull forward of investment in the development of new electric vehicle platforms. And combined, OEMs are now targeting to launch over 400 vehicle programs between now and 2025, which has translated into a tenfold increase in business pursuit activity over the last few years. We've been quick to support our customers globally with high-voltage new business awards totaling $1.4 billion year-to-date and a clear line of sight to future awards.We now expect high-voltage bookings to exceed $2.5 billion for the year. That's an increase of 25% over our prior record of $2 billion. And we expect our high-voltage revenues to increase from just under $1 billion in '21 to over $2.5 billion in 2025, making high-voltage electrification our fastest-growing product segment. Our success has been driven by our end-to-end full system level capabilities, which enable a more efficient path to vehicle electrification. Our portfolio of advanced technologies enables faster charging, improved reliability, performance and packaging as well as increased safety and security, while optimization of the vehicle architecture design leads to reduced complexity, enables more flexible and scalable implementation and, as I mentioned, results in significant weight and cost savings on the path to full SVA, all of which is developed and delivered to our customers flawlessly due to our global scale and manufacturing excellence. Our industry-leading position in high-voltage electrification solutions positions us to pursue additional opportunities and deliver incremental value to customers through a much broader system level design and software solution. Moving to slide 10. We're proud of the progress we've made on our enterprisewide commitment to corporate social responsibility, which can be further explored in our 2021 Sustainability Report that was published in July.This year's report includes our sustainability strategy and 2025 commitments for each of our foundational pillars, which include people, product, planet and platform, and enhanced disclosures specifically around our approach to diversity, inclusion and human capital development, our path to carbon neutrality by 2040, our Lean 2.0 initiatives focused on product quality and execution and the governance and operating processes around our sustainability objectives. Our report also highlights the tremendous contributions made by our team during the pandemic and how each of us live the Aptiv values, thinking and acting like owners and always doing the right thing the right way. Through our team's resiliency and dedication, we've continued to deliver on our mission, creating product that helps transform society by saving lives, reducing carbon emissions and connecting people in new ways. We believe that our long-term success and ability to create value for our stakeholders are directly linked to building more sustainable business that continuously delivers on this mission and our strategy. As a result, we're proud to be an early adopter, linking our sustainability commitments with our bottom line and our recently amended credit facility, which Joe is going to cover in more detail shortly. And we fully understand that reaching our goals will take a comprehensive strategy, intense coordination and operating execution by all of our team members over a sustained period of time.So with that, I'll hand the call over to Joe to take us through the financials in more detail.Joseph R. Massaro -- Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business OperationsThanks, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. Starting with slide 11, the recovery momentum in the second quarter generated strong results, despite the challenging environment Kevin referenced. Revenues of $3.8 billion were up 85%, 17% ahead of vehicle production, with strong market outgrowth in every region. Adjusted EBITDA and operating income were $498 million and $301 million, respectively, reflecting headwinds of $55 million of COVID safety and supply chain disruption costs and $80 million from FX, commodities and other input costs. Earnings per share in the quarter were $0.60 and operating cash flow was strong at $297 million, driven by higher earnings despite increased inventory levels to support customer schedules. Looking at second quarter revenues in more detail on slide 12. Broad demand recovery contributed to strong growth over market across regions. Favorable volumes and the impact of FX and commodities were partially offset by normal price downs in the quarter. From a regional perspective, North America revenues were up 154%, representing 24 points of growth over market, driven by the ramp in active safety launch volumes and favorable truck and SUV platform mix.In Europe, strong double-digit outgrowth of 37% was driven by robust customer launch activity and higher volumes in our high-voltage electrification and industrial product lines. Lastly, in China, revenues grew by 2% or nine points over market, lapping last year's strong market recovery with outgrowth driven by the Engineered Components product line. Moving to the segments on the next slide. Advanced Safety and User Experience revenues increased 83% in the quarter, reflecting 15 points of growth over underlying vehicle production, despite the semiconductor supply constraints. Segment EBITDA increased by $113 million, driven by higher sales volumes, partially offset by supply chain distribution -- I'm sorry, supply chain disruption and higher input costs. Signal and Power Solutions revenue were up 86%. Record growth was driven by broad-based recovery across the auto, commercial vehicle and industrial end markets and the ramping of high-voltage vehicle production. EBITDA in this segment increased by $443 million in the quarter on higher sales volume, partially offset by FX and commodities, primarily copper and additional costs and inefficiencies from the supply chain constraints and resulting disruptions to customer production schedules. Turning now to slide 14 and our 2021 macro outlook. We continue to plan for global vehicle production to be up 10% for the year.As expected, the semiconductor constraints were more impactful in the second quarter due to the impact of the Naka fire and spring weather events. While ongoing challenges with semiconductor supply will continue to impact vehicle production, we believe we have adequately reflected these dynamics in our outlook for the second half, which estimates vehicle production to be down 4%, lapping last year's second half production snapback, which creates difficult comps in all regions. Accordingly, we expect second half production in North America to be flat, while Europe and China are expected to be down 5% and 10%, respectively. In summary, while the supply chain remains tight, we are working closely with customers and suppliers to optimize deliveries to meet customer's demand. Given continued variability in customer production schedules, we are not in a position to provide third quarter financial guidance. However, we are confident in our updated 2021 outlook reflected on slide 15. We now expect revenue in the range of $16.1 billion to $16.4 billion, up 20% with 10 points of growth over market at the midpoint, four points higher than our prior guide, demonstrating the relevance and diversity of our portfolio and product lines. EBITDA and operating income are now expected to be $2.42 billion and $1.63 billion at the midpoint, with strong year-over-year sales conversion despite COVID and supply chain disruption costs, which are now estimated to be $250 million for the year, up $110 million over last year and FX, commodity and other rising input costs. Lastly, we expect earnings per share of $3.75 at the midpoint and operating cash flow of $1.8 billion.Turning to slide 16. We thought it would be helpful to provide more detail on the full year guidance update compared to the initial guidance we provided back in February. Starting with the revenue walk on the left, our updated outlook reflects an increase of $455 million from growth above vehicle production as well as a $385 million tailwind from FX and commodities. EBITDA guidance has increased, driven by the $215 million benefit of higher growth and performance. However, the increase is offset by higher costs, approximately $70 million associated with managing through the supply chain disruptions and volatile customer production schedules. In addition, we are experiencing higher FX and commodity pricing, mainly copper, as well as increases in certain input costs, including semiconductors and resins pricing of $125 million versus our initial guidance. As it relates to these higher commodity price input costs, we have already started taking actions to offset and mitigate these headwinds. We believe it is prudent to assume that these costs are not transitory and will persist into future periods. In addition to passing along higher prices, where possible, including copper price escalations, we have a number of other initiatives, including supplier recovery strategies, engineering redesign and alternative source evaluations as well as engaging in commercial discussions with our customers.Moving to slide 17. Sustainability is core to our business from the products we make to the way in which we operate. We are proud to be one of the first companies to integrate our targets into a financing structure that underscores our commitment to cleaner air and safer work environments. In June, we entered into an amended and restated $2 billion revolving credit facility utilizing our existing sustainability metrics and commitments. The amendment extends the maturity of the credit facility to 2026 and utilizes a pricing mechanism that lowers the borrowing rate, which we maintain throughout the term of the facility as long as we meet our previously published sustainability commitments, which include a decrease in Scope one and two carbon emissions by 25% by 2025 and maintaining an industry-best lost workday case rate. The amended facility includes a debt-to-EBITDA leverage covenant of 3.5 times with up to $750 million cash netting and flexibility to increase the aggregate borrowing capacity and leverage in connection with any future M&A activity. Turning to slide 18. As we have discussed, our business model enables us to convert more income to cash, generating higher operating cash flow and free cash flow conversion. We expect operating cash flow of $1.8 billion in 2021, above 2019 levels, driven by higher earnings, partially offset by investments in inventory to support customer schedules.The decisive actions we've taken in the last few years to strengthen our capital structure has allowed us to maintain a strong balance sheet, while continuing our disciplined capital deployment track record, which is evidenced by the $12.6 billion deployed from 2015 through 2020, focused on value-enhancing investment opportunities. We continue to maintain a consistent approach aligned to our strategic framework that includes reinvesting in our growth businesses with high ROI capex investments largely to support new customer wins and the expansion of key growth product lines; enhancing our auto tech capabilities in software, artificial intelligence, machine learning and systems engineering; as well as continuing to increase scale and diversification in our Signal and Power Solutions segment. The consistent execution of our strategy, even in the face of today's challenges, is a major differentiator for Aptiv and an important lever for shareholder value generation going forward.With that, I'd like to hand the call back to Kevin for his closing remarks.Kevin P. Clark -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Joe. I'll now wrap up on slide 19 before opening it up for questions. As we reflect on the quarter and outlook for the year, it's clear that our relentless focus on innovation and flawless execution is allowing us to better support our customers and is resulting in stronger new business win rates, record bookings and faster revenue growth over market, further validating our industry-leading portfolio of advanced technologies at the intersection of the safe, green and connected megatrends, strengthening the breadth and depth of our customer relationships and thereby widening our competitive moat and advancing our vision of the company in 2025 and beyond. This will result in an improved and more predictable growth profile, increased profitability driven by the leverage of our global scale and the flawless execution of the accretive growth opportunities that are squarely on the path to the electrified software-defined vehicle, which results in the compounding of earnings and cash flow generation and provides additional opportunities for value creation through the disciplined deployment of cash. We're well positioned to continue to outperform as a purpose-driven company with a road map to create significant value for our customers, employees and shareholders, leveraging our technology relevance, strong financial position and the flexibility to constantly reinvent, reinvest in our people, in our processes and in our portfolio.With that, let's open up the line for questions.