  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the MGM Resorts International first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. Joining the call from the company today are Bill Hornbuckle, chief executive officer and president; Corey Sanders, chief operating officer; Jonathan Halkyard, chief financial officer and treasurer; Hubert Wang, president and chief operating officer of MGM China; and Andrew Chapman, director of investor relations. Participants are in a listen-only mode. After the company's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Please note, this conference is being recorded. Now, I would like to turn the call over to Andrew Chapman. Please go ahead.Andrew Chapman -- Director of Investor Relations Good afternoon, and welcome to the MGM Resorts International first quarter 2022 earnings call. This call is being broadcast live on the internet at investors.mgmresorts.com. We've also furnished our press release on Form 8-K to the SEC. On this call, we will make forward-looking statements under the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in these statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements is contained in today's press release and in our periodic filings with the SEC. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or otherwise. During this call, we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about our performance.You can find the reconciliation of the GAAP financial measures in our press release and investor presentation which are available on our website. Finally, this presentation is being recorded. I will now turn it over to Bill Hornbuckle. Bill Hornbuckle -- Chief Executive Officer and President Thank you, Andrew, and good afternoon, and thank you, all, for joining us today. I'd like to begin today's call by once again thanking our employees at MGM Resorts for their determination, agility, perseverance, and commitment to assets that helped fuel another strong quarter for our company. We were challenged in January by the Omicron variant but pivoted quickly into recovery mode, leading to multiple all-time EBITDAR record at several of our Las Vegas and digital properties in March. These results showcased the strength of our talented team across the country, our focus on operational efficiency, and the continued strong demand for the service and experience we provide at MGM Resorts. Today, I want to acknowledge and thank our employees, again, for all that they do every day to take care of our guests and each other. As a company, we remain laser-focused on our strategic plan and our long-term vision: to be the world's premier gaming entertainment company. As a reminder, our strategic plan consists of the following four priorities; investing in our people and our planet; providing unique experiences to our guests by leveraging data-driven customer insights and digital capabilities; delivering operational excellence at every level; and allocating our capital responsibly to yield the highest return for our shareholders. Over the last several quarters, we've discussed the meaningful steps we've taken to simplify our corporate structure and monetize the real estate assets to meaningfully bolster our domestic cash condition. We reached another important milestone in this journey, Friday, April 29th, when we closed the strategic transaction with MGM Growth Properties and Vici. I'd like to thank James Stewart, Andy Chan, and the board and employees of MGP for all their support and for the great relationship we have built over the years. Our transaction with Vici allowed us to fully deconsolidated MGP from our financial reporting and also netted us approximately $4.4 billion in cash, which we will use to invest in our core business will also continue to assume meaningful growth opportunities. One such opportunity is our announcement today of the tender for LeoVegas, our success with BetMGM in the United States gives us more conviction than ever about the potential for digital gaming and our ability to grow share in the exciting new marketplace. And with this conviction, we are expanding internationally with the team at LeoVegas. Its strong technology platform and pipeline for growth present a compelling opportunity for our business to grow online. We'd like to thank the management team at LeoVegas for their professionalism and support throughout the process, and we look forward to working with that team when the deal closes in the second half of this year. Another opportunity that we're quite excited about is the pursuit of a commercial gaming license in New York. The recently enacted fiscal year 2023 budget includes provisions that will allow the issuance of up to three new licenses in the state. We'd like to thank Governor Hochul and the New York legislature for getting this important issue across the finish line. We're eager to begin the RFA process and share our vision for the future of the property in Yonkers, where if we receive a license, we plan to replace the existing VLTs with slot machines and have table games through our existing casino floor and construct new amenities on portions of our 97-acre site. Again, we're excited by this opportunity and look forward to investing this discipline in New York to create new jobs and foster economic growth in the region. Turning to our Las Vegas growth strategy, we made solid progress toward our acquisition of operations of The Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas and are on track to close this quarter. The Cosmopolitan is an iconic brand with a loyal and complementary customer base that will further enhance our Las Vegas Strip portfolio. We've met with key leaders at the Cosmopolitan over the last weeks and months, and are impressed by the quality of their team, as well as the culture and the brand that they have build. We look forward to welcoming all the CoStars at the Cosmopolitan to MGM Resorts and adding this existing portfolio -- of property, excuse me, to our portfolio. We've also made progress on the sale of the operations of the Mirage to Hard Rock International, which we announced last year. We are working closely with regulators to ensure a smooth transition and expect this transaction to close in the second half of this year. Shifting to our international growth strategy. Last week, we submitted our area development plan to the government of Japan with our partners at ORIX and the city of Osaka. This is the final milestone before a license decision will be made, hopefully in October of this year. We continue to work closely with the national government to obtain a license that will be hopefully awarded later this year and bring a fully integrated resort into Japan. In the UAE, we continue to make progress in beginning the MGM brand family to Dubai, where we have a management agreement for an integrated resort being developed in partnership with Wasel. The project has broken ground in a development process, and we remain diligent for opportunities to bring the MGM brand to other locales around the world. Turning to BetMGM, we are now live in 23 markets with New York, Illinois, Louisiana, and Puerto Rico coming online in the first quarter and Ontario launching in early April. In February, BetMGM committed 24% market share in active markets in both U.S. sports betting and iGaming, which puts us in the No. 1 position nationwide. BetMGM is the clear leader in iGaming, having reached 28% market share in February. The BetMGM management team will be able to provide more color on results and the strategy at their investor meeting on Thursday, May 12. Finally, I'd like to spend a few minutes on our organic growth strategy. On February 1, we relaunched our loyalty program as MGM Rewards with a goal to target high-value non-gaming customers in addition to gaming customers, increase cross-property patronage and tier progression, while motivating benefits and further activate BetMGM customers at our properties. We've seen solid results since the launch of MGM Rewards in Q1, particularly as it relates to our omnichannel growth strategy with BetMGM. In the first quarter, 57% of our MGM Rewards enrollments came via BetMG driven by the Super Bowl, compared to 39% for the full year in 2021. We've committed to our strategy of building loyalty between our different channels and ultimately creating a seamless experience for our customers to play both online and in person. Before I turn this over to Jonathan, I'd like to hit a few highlights of our current trends and our future outlook. In Las Vegas, we maintained strong margins in the first quarter, a reflection of the sustainable operating learnings implemented from the pandemic, Strong weekend occupancies and ADR were driven by a robust event calendar, and we see that trend continuing into the second quarter. For the mid-week, our occupancy is still behind 2019, but an improving mix of business and a growing group base will allow us to ramp in the remainder of the year. We continue to expect our convention room nights to reach 90% of 2019 levels in the back half of 2022. Importantly, we are seeing increased spend levels for our groups year to date, including catering and banquets, and to spotlight, our international leisure trends were beginning to see positive indicators of the return of international flight capacity. In fact, by this summer, the LVCVA expects international flight capacity to return to 80% of pre-pandemic levels. Further highlight events in Las Vegas, we were honored to host the Grammys at MGM Grand Garden. We welcomed the BTS army to our properties for four sold-out shows at Legion Stadium. This past weekend, we also hosted the NFL Draft, which activated the entire Las Vegas Strip. We also have big sporting events coming with the NCAA Men's Basketball Regionals on tap for March of next year, along with the first-of-a-kind Formula 1 Race in the Las Vegas Strip in November of 2023. And, of course, we will host the Super Bowl in February of 2024. All of these big events show the incredible progress the City has made as an entertainment and sports destination. Looking to our regional properties, we had a very strong first quarter with competitive margins to 2021 and we are focused on driving strong rated gaming revenues by yielding our database with the highest value players. Finally, I want to touch briefly on our operations in Macau. We continue to see headwinds in the short term with public health policies impacting the ability for customers to enter Macau. Despite this, our 13% market share is higher than we have seen historically, and our properties are well-positioned to capture premium mass business as volumes begin to return. Concession renewal process is underway, and we remain confident in the government's judicious and fair approach to this process. Macau is an important part of our future, and we will continue to work with the government to ultimately get our license renewed. We look forward to further promoting the long-term development of Macau's gaming industry and supporting the government's tourism and diversification goals for the region. With that, I'll turn it over to Jonathan to discuss the details of the quarter.Jonathan Halkyard -- Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Thanks very much, Bill, and good afternoon, everyone. I'd like to echo Bill's words by thanking the entire MGM Resorts team for their professionalism and resiliency in the face of an ever-changing operating environment. I'd also like to thank the Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas team for their support as we plan for closing, and I look forward to welcoming the CoStars into the MGM Resorts family this quarter. Now let's spend a few minutes on our first quarter results in some detail. Our consolidated first quarter net revenues were $2.9 billion, and our net loss attributable to MGM Resorts was $18 million, a significant improvement when compared to net revenues of $1.6 billion and a net loss of $332 million in the first quarter of 2021. Our first quarter Las Vegas Strip, net revenues were $1.7 billion and adjusted property EBITDAR for the Stirp was $594 million. Net revenues were down 1% on a same-store basis due to 343,000 fewer occupied rooms, nearly all in January. However, same-store adjusted property EBITDAR of $472 million was up 21% versus the first quarter of 2019, demonstrating our broad-based margin improvement. First quarter occupancy was 78%, but it was a different story each month of the quarter. The Omicron impact was significant in January, during which occupancy was 65%. We recovered to an occupancy of 78% in February and finished the quarter with occupancy of 90% in March. The strength continued into April, where we saw an occupancy of 92% on the Strip. Despite the pandemic impact, ADR in the first quarter was $197 or $184 on a same-store basis, which was $1 above the first quarter of 2019. And same-store excludes ARIA and Vdara in 2022. Again, a different story each month for ADR. ADR had a similar cadence as occupancy, down 11% versus the first quarter of '19 in January, then up 4% in February and up 9% in March, driven by strong weekend demand. Simultaneous increases in volume and pricing improved our financial performance dramatically as we went through the quarter. Las Vegas Strip margins were 36% for the quarter and 35% on a same-store basis, an improvement of over 600 basis points versus 2019 on a same-store basis. We have the blueprint in place to sustain margins well above 2019 levels through our cost efficiency efforts and operating leverage. As Bill mentioned, together with robust group demand, there is exciting programming in the second quarter that will drive increased leisure business in Las Vegas and support occupancies in the low 90s. Our first quarter regional net revenues were $891 million, an increase of 11% versus the first quarter of 2019. We delivered regional adjusted property EBITDAR of $313 million, which was 48% above 2019. Our regional casino business was quite strong despite the typical seasonality in the business during the first quarter. Our casino revenues improved 23% versus the first quarter of 2019. Our first quarter regional margin of 35% grew 882 basis points versus 2019. The promotional expenses in the regional markets are stable and a few points below 2019 levels. Room nights were down in the first quarter due in part to staffing challenges, but that situation is improving nicely this quarter. Moving to Macau. Net revenues of $268 million in the first quarter represents a 9% decrease compared to the first quarter of 2021. Adjusted property EBITDAR was a loss of $26 million in the first quarter versus a positive $5 million in the prior-year quarter. Now, the current quarter also included a charge of $18 million related to litigation reserves. We're confident in Macau that our product offering-in our product offering and we believe that once demand returns, we're very well-positioned to grow, particularly in our premium mass and mass segments. Turning to BetMGM. Our 50% of BetMGM's losses in the first quarter amounted to $92 million, which is reported as part of the unconsolidated affiliates line of our adjusted EBITDA calculation. This was driven largely by the initial investment in New York, but we expect these losses to narrow in the upcoming quarters. The growth story for BetMGM is a key pillar in our long-term strategic plan. Connecting BetMGM with MGM Rewards allows us to develop a strong omni-channel link with our customers that will optimize our guest experience, both online and in person. Our first quarter corporate expense, including share-based compensation, was $111 million, which included $9 million of transaction costs. We're strategically investing our corporate expense in growth areas, including improvements to our IT infrastructure, enhancing our digital offerings, and our IR efforts in Japan. And before we wrap up our prepared remarks, I would like once again to reiterate our approach to capital allocation. First, we'll maintain a strong balance sheet with adequate liquidity. Second, we'll invest where we have clear advantages exercising prudence and measuring prospective returns for our shareholders. And finally, we'll return cash to shareholders. And I think our actions thus far this year amply demonstrate our priorities in allocating capital. We have the closure on Friday of our strategic transactions with VICI and realized $4.4 billion in proceeds for MGM, bolstering our liquidity and strengthening our balance sheet. This quarter, we announced or will close two strategic growth investments to augment our digital and Las Vegas market position, LeoVegas and The Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas. Finally, during the first quarter, we repurchased 23.3 million shares for $1 billion. In April, we repurchased another 6.2 million shares. So since the beginning of 2021, we've repurchased 72.7 million shares for approximately $3 billion or 19% of our market capitalization. This activity brings our share count down to about 425 million shares. With that, I'll turn it back to Bill for his closing remarks.Bill Hornbuckle -- Chief Executive Officer and President Thanks, Jonathan. We've made solid progress in the company coming out of the pandemic, and our operating models are strongest as it even been. I'd like to again thank all of our team members for their commitment and dedication to MGM Resorts. We've not be in the position we are today without all of their hard work. Obviously, we are looking forward to the rest of 2022 and beyond with confidence and feel our best days are yet to come. With that, operator, I'll turn it over and take questions. 