

Operator
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining DocuSign's third quarter fiscal year 2022 earnings conference call. As a reminder, this call is being recorded and will be available for replay from the investor relations section of the website following the call. [Operator instructions] I will now pass the call over to Annie Leschin, head of investor relations.
Please go ahead.
Annie Leschin -- Head of Investor Relations

 




Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to DocuSign's third quarter fiscal year '22 earnings conference call. On the call today, we have DocuSign's CEO, Dan Springer; and CFO, Cynthia Gaylor.
The press release announcing our third quarter results was issued earlier today and is posted on our investor relations website. Before we get started, I'd like to let everyone know that we plan to participate virtually in a few events in the upcoming weeks, the UBS Tech Conference on December 8, and the Needham Conference on January 10. As other events come up, we'll make additional announcements. Now, let me remind everyone that some of our statements on today's call are forward-looking.

We believe our assumptions and expectations related to these forward-looking statements are reasonable, but they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results or performance to be materially different. Please read and consider the risk factors in our filings with the SEC, together with the content of this call. Any forward-looking statements are based on our assumptions and expectations to date. And except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these statements in light of future events or new information.
During this call, we will present GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures exclude stock-based compensation expenses, amortization of acquired intangible assets, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs from our notes and as applicable, other special items. In addition, we provide non-GAAP weighted average share count and information regarding free cash flows and billings. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be considered in isolation from or a substitute for, or superior to, our GAAP results.

 




We encourage you to consider all measures when analyzing our performance. For information regarding our non-GAAP data to most directly comparable GAAP measures and a quantitative reconciliation of those figures, please refer to today's press release, which can be found again on our investor website. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Dan. Dan?
Dan Springer -- Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Annie. Good afternoon, and welcome to our third quarter earnings call. First, let me share the financial results. In Q3, we continued to see solid performance with our revenue and profitability.
Revenue grew 42% year over year to $545 million and operating margin reached 22%, exceeding our guidance. International was again a bright spot at 68% year-over-year growth and now 23% of total revenue. However, we fell short of our billings guidance, coming in at 28% year-over-year growth. We expanded our customer base to 1.11 million and we continue to see strong dollar net retention of 121%.

 




The market dynamics that we saw in the third quarter were markedly different from what we experienced in the first half of this year. With the boost from COVID-19 over the past year and a half, we experienced exceptionally high growth rates at scale as we captured customer demand at an unprecedented pace. As we move through Q3 and into the second half of the year, we saw demand slow and the urgency of customers' buying patterns temper. While we had expected an eventual step-down from the peak levels of growth achieved during the height of the pandemic, the environment shifted more quickly than we anticipated, and these were the primary contributors to our billing results in Q3 and our outlook for Q4.
Despite this, it's clear that we are still in the early days of the $50 billion agreement cloud opportunity as digital transformation remains a high priority for organizations worldwide. DocuSign is uniquely positioned to lead and capture eSignature and the broader agreement cloud market opportunity, given our strong brand leading market position and product differentiation. Even as the pandemic subsides and people begin to return to the office, they are not returning to paper. eSignature and the broader agreement cloud are clearly here to stay, and DocuSign's value will persist no matter how the future of work unfolds.
To continue to drive growth at scale from new company acquisition to existing customer expansion, we need to ensure our teams are firing on all cylinders. We are doubling down on growth to counter recent trends by aggressively investing in two key strategic areas. First, we are increasing investment in global sales capacity, training and field enablement to speed pipeline generation with new business and to drive expansion within our customer base. We're globalizing our marketing investments across direct and channel sales to drive brand awareness and qualified sales leads, both domestically and in our expanding international markets.
As part of this effort, we are aligning our worldwide sales, marketing and success operations under chief operating officer, Scott Olrich. With this move, chief revenue officer, Loren Alhadeff; and SVP of customer success, Lambert Walsh, will now report to Scott. In addition, Mike Sheridan, who has served DocuSign for over six years, first as CFO, and most recently leading our international strategy, has moved on from the company as of the end of November. I'd really like to personally thank Mike for all of his many contributions to DocuSign in key roles through critical stages of our development.
We all wish Mike well in his retirement. With the substantial growth of these go-to-market organizations in the last year and a half, we believe these moves will drive a unified motion toward demand generation, demand capture and our overall growth. The second key strategic area we're investing in is product innovation, which will continue to be an integral part of our success. I'd like to touch on how we are elevating our innovation efforts across our expanded portfolio of products that make up the DocuSign agreement cloud.
Last month, we enhanced DocuSign Notary, so administrators can manage the availability of first-party notaries, one more reason we believe that DocuSign Notary will become the tool of choice for real estate, insurance and other financial service providers. A number of financial institutions, including Fidelity, added the service in Q3, but M&T Bank is my personal favorite early success story in the space. M&T Bank has been a customer since 2018, but their DocuSign use cases jumped from about 50 to more than 200. First, with the introduction of ID verification and now with notary.
That's an obvious win for us, but the win for M&T Bank is they can now remotely notarized documents in less than seven minutes. The combination of eSignature, identity verification and notary are game-changers for M&T's 700 retail branches, and we're hearing that it's making a notable impact on their operating costs, as well as a huge plus for their customer experience. Speaking of ID verification, or IDV for short, last month, we also launched an enhancement that lets customers add SMS reauthentication to IDV envelopes. So after signers pass an initial IDV, they enter a pass code delivered via SMS text to access the envelope, adding an extra layer of security that our customers value, along with added convenience to our customers' customers.
We've also made a number of important enhancements to our DocuSign CLM product this quarter, helping organizations automate manual business processes and improve efficiency with every agreement. Just this month, we launched a full set of collaboration tools within the product to give users the ability to comment, tag others and assign tasks all in the CLM UI. On top of those innovations, we continue to make significant enhancements across the entire Agreement Cloud, including new agreement actions with Google and Microsoft apps to automate the post-signature tasks, new delegated signing capabilities for our enterprise customers, and new tech to simplify invoicing using our popular product, DocuSign Gen for Salesforce billing. There's plenty more ahead to extend our leadership position and guide our customers into the next generation of agreements as our steady drumbeat of innovation continues to set us apart.
We are making significant investments in both product and platform innovation as we believe it drives customer success and positions us well for durable growth going forward. On the customer front, I mentioned earlier that we added 59,000 new customers in Q3, and I'd like to share two of them that are particularly relevant to our focus areas. One of our newest global customers, UPS, adopted an enterprisewide initiative to modernize their entire contracting process with DocuSign CLM. Having previously used an alternative solution, their 9,000-plus person sales organization is now using CLM and eSignature products in conjunction with Salesforce, all integrated into one workflow.
The successful deployment has led to a much faster and more efficient process with greater visibility. This is attracting the attention of other business units where we are actively exploring expansion opportunities. I think it illustrates that both eSignature and CLM can be effective on ramps into enterprise businesses, and both can open the door for deeper cross-departmental adoption rates. Solarity Credit Union in Washington State is a business that prides itself on pushing the boundaries of technology to elevate the customer experience.
Solarity first looked to DocuSign to better enable their residential mortgage process with DocuSign Rooms for Mortgage. Next, they began using DocuSign Notary as a stand-alone offering. Then Solarity became the first DocuSign customer to fully integrate these capabilities to offer a completely digital solution for remote residential mortgage closings. I expect many more stories like Solarity as our customers move to differentiate their own customer experience with seamlessly integrated solutions.
We're also continuing to deepen our relationships and drive innovation across our already thriving partner ecosystem. Building on our collaboration of over a decade, we announced an expansion of our global strategic partnership with Salesforce. Together, we expect to build new joint solutions to automate the contract process, improve the customer experience, drive faster ROI and increase collaboration among organizations that use Slack, which is now a part of Salesforce. This expansion reflects the fact that Salesforce and DocuSign have consistently succeeded together as partners which, in turn, has generated opportunities to partner in priority areas such as Slack for Salesforce and CLM for DocuSign.
Following our eSignature integration with Microsoft Teams earlier this year, DocuSign is now also an official electronic signature provider in the Microsoft team's approvals app, adding to our integration across Microsoft Office 365 and Dynamics 365. This latest enhancement allows users to create, manage and share approvals directly from Teams, enabling them to streamline approval requests while keeping up to date on the status of approval. So to wrap up, we are proactively addressing the rapid change in demand trends that we're seeing as we emerge from the pandemic by investing in the areas most critical to our future growth. Though we've adjusted our near-term outlook to reflect the uncertainties of the current environment, we have strong confidence in our vision and strategy.
We are convinced that the growth opportunity for DocuSign remains largely untapped. We have products that are loved by our customers and their customers in turn and technology that is making a difference in the global speed of business, as well as the health of our planet. If the last year has shown us anything, it's just how early in the opportunity we really are. In the coming weeks and months, you will see us focus our efforts and investments to drive growth at scale.
While disappointed with my execution on billings this quarter, I'm highly optimistic about our long-term growth, and we remain one of the fastest-growing enterprise cloud companies in history. We will continue to innovate across our platform as we lay the foundation for our future expansion across the entire agreement cloud. With that, over to you, Cynthia.
Cynthia Gaylor -- Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Dan, and good afternoon, everyone. After six quarters of accelerated demand, we saw customers shift their buying patterns in the third quarter. Revenue, profitability and cash flow remain strong, while billings and dollar net retention came off their highs, especially in light of the tougher year-over-year comparables. As Dan mentioned, we had expected this to happen more gradually, and we saw a more notable shift in Q3 than anticipated.
Total revenue increased 42% year over year to $545 million, while subscription revenue grew 44% year over year to $529 million. Our international business expanded at a healthy rate, especially in our Asia Pacific region this quarter. In total, international revenue grew 68% year over year to $128 million, contributing 23% of total revenue. Billings grew 28% year over year to $565 million as we were impacted by the shift in customer buying behavior, accentuated by a particularly strong first half of the year.
With that said, we brought on 59,000 new customers, bringing our total customer count to 1.11 million customers worldwide, an increase of 35% compared to a year ago. We also added over 11,000 direct customers, bringing the total to nearly 160,000, an increase of 41% year over year. Customers with an annual spend greater than $300,000 grew 45% year over year to a total of 785 customers. After an exceptional 1.5 years of customer growth, we continue to add customers at a solid pace.
For the sixth quarter in a row, we exceeded the high end of our historical range of dollar net retention, landing at 121% as our existing customers expanded their deployments of our product offerings. Total non-GAAP gross margin for the third quarter was 82% compared with 79% a year ago, while subscription gross margin was 86% compared with 84% a year ago. In Q3, non-GAAP operating margin reached 22% or over $122 million compared with 13% or $49 million in the third quarter of last year. Our Q3 revenue growth continued to outpace our ability to invest at a similar rate in quarter.
In addition, the delayed reopening of our offices led to lower-than-expected travel and entertainment expenses. As Dan discussed, we are committed to investing for future growth with a focus on optimizing our go-to-market efforts around demand generation, along with customer success and accelerating our product development and innovation engine. Non-GAAP net income for Q3 was $121 million compared with $46 million in the third quarter of last year. We ended the quarter with 7,056 employees, an increase of 32% over last year.
Operating cash flow came in at $105 million or 19% margin due to continued top line outperformance. This compares with $57 million or 15% in the same quarter a year ago. Free cash flow reached $90 million or 17% margin in the quarter compared to $38 million or 10% in the prior year. We exited Q3 with $908 million in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments.
Now, let me turn to guidance. Coming off of the strong growth we experienced in the first half of the year, we've done rigorous analysis to understand the current dynamics. As a result, we are maintaining our Q4 subscription revenue guidance and adjusting billings to take into account the risks and opportunities we see in the business For the fourth quarter and full year fiscal '22, guidance is as follows: Total revenue of $557 million to $563 million in Q4 or growth of 29% to 31% year over year, and $2.083 billion to $2.089 billion for fiscal '22 or growth of 43% to 44% year over year. Of this, we expect subscription revenue of $544 million to $550 million in Q4 or growth of 33% to 34% year over year, and $2.017 billion to $2.023 billion for fiscal '22 or growth of 46% year over year.
For billings, we expect $647 million to $659 million in Q4 or growth of 21% to 23% year over year, and $2.335 billion to $2.347 billion for fiscal '22 or growth of 36% year over year. We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be 81% to 82% for both Q4 and fiscal '22. We expect non-GAAP operating margin to be 17% to 19% for Q4, and 19% to 21% for fiscal '22. We expect to see a de minimis amount of interest and other income.
We expect a tax provision of approximately $3 million to $4 million for fiscal '22. We expect fully diluted weighted shares outstanding of 205 million to 210 million for both Q4 and fiscal '22. In closing, DocuSign has become a critical component of organizations' digital transformations around the globe. While there may be some short-term fluctuations, we remain confident in our long-term growth strategy and steadfast in our commitment to top line growth as our first priority.
Thank you for joining us today. We will now open up the call for questions. Operator?
