  OperatorWelcome to the Corning Inc. quarter 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] It is my pleasure to introduce you to Ann Nicholson, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Ann Nicholson -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Catherine, and good morning, everybody. Welcome to Corning's first quarter 2022 earnings call. With me today are Wendell Weeks, chairman and chief executive officer; Ed Schlesinger, executive vice president and chief financial officer; and Jeff Evenson, executive vice president and chief strategy officer. I'd like to remind you that today's remarks contain forward-looking statements that fall within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

 



 These statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. These factors are detailed in the company's financial reports. You should also note that we'll be discussing our consolidated results using core performance measures, unless we specifically indicate our comments relate to GAAP data. Our core performance measures are non-GAAP measures used by management to analyze the business.For the first quarter, the largest differences between our GAAP and core results stem from noncash mark-to-market gains associated with the company's currency hedging contracts and noncash impairment charges. With respect to mark-to-market adjustments, GAAP accounting requires earnings translation hedge contracts and foreign debt settling in future periods to be mark-to-market and recorded at current value at the end of each quarter, even though those contracts will not be settled in the current quarter. For us, this increased GAAP earnings in the first quarter by $138 million. To be clear, this mark-to-market accounting has no impact on our cash flow. Our currency hedges protect us economically from foreign exchange rate fluctuations and provide higher certainty for our earnings and cash flow, our ability to invest for growth and our future shareholder distributions. Our non-GAAP record results provide additional transparency into operations by using a constant currency rate aligned with the economics of our underlying transactions. We're very pleased with our hedging program and the economic certainty it provides. We've received more than $1.9 billion in cash under our hedge contracts since their inception almost 10 years ago. A reconciliation of core results to the comparable GAAP value can be found in the investor relations section of our website at corning.com. You may also access core results on our website with downloadable financials in the Interactive Analyst Center. Supporting slides are being shown live on our webcast. We encourage you to follow along.

 



 They're also available on our website for downloading. And now I'll turn the call over to Wendell. Wendell Weeks -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Ann, and good morning, everyone. We're off to an outstanding start in 2022 with strong first quarter sales and improved profitability. Sales grew 15% over the first quarter of 2021 to $3.7 billion. EPS increased 20% year over year to $0.54. Free cash flow was $171 million. We saw broad-based strength across our businesses. and we effectively navigated a complex geopolitical and external operating environment. Gross margin of 36.6% and operating margin of 17.6%, both expanded sequentially and year over year.

 



 The improvements were primarily driven by benefits of pricing actions across all our businesses. Historically, prices are usually down in the first quarter. However, as I told you last quarter, we negotiated with customers to increase prices in our long-term contracts to share increased cost more appropriately. And therefore, this year, price in total was up both sequentially and year over year. We expect price to be up again in the second quarter. Specifically in display, we achieved a slight price increase in the first quarter. For the second quarter, we expect price to be up slightly sequentially in glass supply and demand to remain tight. You'll hear more from Ed on the display market in our outlook. Now let's take a closer look at how we performed in each of our market access platforms. In display, -- we continue to operate from a position of strength. We delivered 11% year-over-year sales and net income growth, driven by higher glass volume and slightly higher price. In optical communications, we grew sales 28% year over year to $1.2 billion, representing 32% and of total sales. Optical communications is our largest market access platform by sales, and we expect significant growth to continue. Operators are expanding their networks. At the pace of data center construction is accelerating and fiber-rich wireless deployments are underway. We continue to be energized by the momentum that is building in this business, and we're well-positioned to capture growth. In mobile consumer electronics, specialty materials outperformed the market with year-over-year sales growth of 9%, driven by significant demand for our premium cover materials and advanced optics products. In automotive, our environmental technology sales declined year over year due to customer production constraints. However, we continue to outperform the market. Sales were up in our automotive glass business, and I'll talk more about that in a minute. In life sciences, we grew year over year, advanced key innovations for cell and gene therapy and expanded supply of glass files and tubing. Based on the quarter and our expectation of continued strong demand, we are raising our sales expectations for the year to above $15 billion. Our results speak for themselves. We've been delivering consistent growth with more balanced contributions across the company. And you'll hear more about that from Ed in just a minute. So how do we do this? Our strong position stems from a complementary set of three core technologies, four proprietary manufacturing and engineering platforms and five market access platforms. We're leaders in each. We captured growth opportunities by combining, integrating and evolving these capabilities to help our customers drive their industries forward. And in so doing, we drive more Corning content into the products people are already buying. How we typically spend the majority of our time discussing the results within our five segments. However, important growth opportunities for our more Corning strategy also reside in the segment, we have historically referred to as other. To better reflect the significant contributions and potential of these initiatives, we've renamed it, Hemlock and emerging growth businesses. This segment grew 38% year over year in the first quarter. So today, I want to spend some time talking about what's going on and how it underscores our confidence that we will continue to deliver durable, multiyear profitable growth. Hemlock currently delivers most of the sales in this segment. Hemlock manufacturers ultra-pure polysilicon for the semiconductor and solar industries. As a reminder, Corning owns 80.5% of Hemlock as a result of Hemlock's purchase of DuPont's ownership in the company in 2020. Now this was a great transaction for Corning. We didn't put any money into the transaction, and we gained an additional 40% interest in Hemlock's strong semiconductor business that also has the upside potential reflected in the solar market. Recently, we secured multiyear take-or-pay commitments for solar, and we expect demand to grow. Additionally, as the renewable energy industry evolves, we believe that Corning's technical and manufacturing capabilities, our three and four can provide significant benefits. We believe this business has excellent growth potential. The other two major contributors in this segment are automotive glass and pharmaceutical glass packaging. And we're making good progress on these two large opportunities. And both are prime examples of our focused and cohesive portfolio in action. So let's take a look at how we reapply and reuse our capabilities to drive ongoing value, starting with automotive glass. There's no denying it. The driving experience is rapidly evolving. Drivers want more connected and autonomous features. And the basis of competition is moving from the engine to the cabin. Automakers are responding to these trends. Car design is getting less analog and more digital. Fewer buttons and more large screens with touch capability. Nearly universally, the solution is more glass. And as automakers address the opportunities and the challenges they face, they're looking for glass to provide both form and function. To meet their needs, we've reapplied our existing capabilities, expertise and experience in the automotive market. We started with the Fusion jaw assets that provide pristine flat glass in our display and mobile consumer electronics market access platforms, and we took insight from Gorilla Glass to create better, more sustainable products that offer superior economics and help our customers advance the transformation of their industry. Pull for our technical glass products is strongest in auto interiors. We've answered with auto-grade Gorilla Glass. It provides our signature toughness and optics tailored for the automotive use case to bring the smartphone experience into the car. We've also developed and patented ColdForm technology. By removing heat from the glass shaping process, cold for improved yields saves money and ultimately delivers a better, more sustainable product at a lower cost than hot form glass. It enables dashboard and console displays that follow the natural curves of the car's interior protected by a single thin piece of precision glass. Our customers can bend the glass to suit their design needs right at the end of their own display module assembly. Looking ahead, we continue to pursue multiple opportunities for our interior and exterior glass innovations. We've entered a new product category with our curved mirror solutions for head-up displays. And we're providing Gorilla Glass to Jeep's iconic Wrangler and Gladiator. We're also working on OLED lighting. And we're in the early stages of delivering glass solutions for the sensors that are critical for autonomous vehicles. What this all adds up to is an increasingly significant business created by applying our more Corning approach. Our automotive glass solutions business is helping us capture $100 per car opportunity. We've already been awarded over $1 billion of multiyear business across multiple manufacturers and numerous car makes and models, and we're confident in our growth trajectory as we continue to build on this exciting opportunity. Now let's look at another key emerging growth business. We drew on our glass science capabilities to develop a pharmaceutical packaging solution with both exceptional strength and enhanced chemical stability relative to incumbent or silicon vials. Borosilicate glass is inherently prone to issues such as delamination. Shifting to an alumina silicon base eliminates this risk and optimizes vials for our ion exchange process. As with the auto example that I just shared, we applied our experience making tough damage-resistant glass to the pharmaceutical vial market. And we drew on our deep relationships and years of experience in the life sciences market to deepen our understanding of customers' problems and collaborate very closely on our solution. We started with glass tubing and then applied our expertise in extrusion and precision forming to convert the glass into vials, and we leveraged our experience in vapor deposition to apply a coating that helps files travel more quickly through the drug filling process. The result was Valor glass, and I think it's fair to say that this is a product no one else in the world could have invented. Last fall, we expanded our portfolio by unpacking the Valor technology stack to launch a new product that helps address supply chain challenges. Our new velocity vials use already approved packaging with a patented coating. Velocity is helping drug makers increase efficiency and throughput to drive faster manufacturing of vaccines and other medications that meet significant global demand. Today, our solutions are clearly showing their strength. Our portfolio of vials and tubing has enabled the delivery of 5.5 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and demand continues to be strong. In the first quarter, our vial production was up more than 150% versus 2021, and our tubing production is expected to increase more than 25% this year as we ramp capacity. We also recently announced a new long-term supply and development agreement with West Pharmaceutical to enable advanced injectable drug packaging and delivery systems for the pharmaceutical industry. This partnership is designed to help speed the commercialization phase for biologic drug developers by avoiding costly, time-intensive barriers, so they can successfully bring important new drug discoveries to market faster. In total, we're helping to create a future for pharmaceutical manufacturing that offers higher quality, greater efficiency and better sustainability. Stepping back, I think you can see why our customers value our capabilities. We provide unique solutions to move industries forward. all while making the world just a little bit better. Because of this, we're able to thrive in up and down markets. Combined with the measures we're taking to improve margins, we're confident in our ability to drive long-term profitable growth. Now as I conclude my remarks, I'll leave you with a final thought. The confluence of the consequential events that we're experiencing today and the need to operate effectively to serve our stakeholders has required that we all embrace creative new ways of doing business. And at Corning, our values are evident in our actions. We outlined much of our progress in our 2021 sustainability and DE&I reports, which published last month. And this quarter, we built on our success through auctions, including financial support for humanitarian efforts in the Ukraine and surrounding countries. And continued progress on the greenhouse gas goals we announced at the end of last year. I'm excited about the year ahead and look forward to updating you on our progress. Now let me turn the call over to Ed, who will share more details on our results, financial priorities and outlook.Ed Schlesinger -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Wendell. Good morning, everyone. I want to begin today by saying how encouraged and energized I am by the way our company is performing. We've started 2022 from a position of strength. We are successfully navigating against a complex external operating environment. We're confident in our ability to deliver on a short and long-term profitable growth opportunities to create compelling value for shareholders. Starting with the short term, we had an extremely strong quarter. commercially, operationally and financially. We delivered year over year top and bottom-line growth, and we improved margins as our pricing actions began to take hold. Total company sales surpassed $3.7 billion, growing 15% year over year, highlighted by a nearly 30% increase in optical sales, a slight increase in display glass prices and continued demand for Hemlock solar materials. Net income for the quarter was $465 million, up 16% year over year and EPS was $0.54, up 20% year over year, both growing at a faster rate than sales. We generated $171 million in free cash flow in the quarter and we are on track for another strong year of cash generation. In terms of capital deployment, we invested $383 million in capex. We declared a quarterly dividend of $0.27, which reflects the 12.5% increase announced in January, and we repurchased approximately $150 million of outstanding shares. Taking a closer look at profitability. First quarter gross margin expanded 10 basis points sequentially, and 80 basis points year over year, primarily due to the benefits of our pricing actions. Typically, aggregate price for the company and gross margin percent declined sequentially in the first quarter. This year, both increased as we took price actions across all businesses. Additionally, first quarter operating margin expanded 140 basis points sequentially and 50 basis points year over year. As we've previously discussed, we continue to experience increases in key input costs. We are tackling these challenges on multiple fronts. We're leveraging relationships with our suppliers to secure favorable long-term raw material pricing, our strategic approach to manufacture in region and to co-locate with customers has helped to shield us from some of the elevated freight and logistics costs. And most importantly, we are increasing price to more appropriately share rising costs of raw materials. We will continue our focus on these unusual costs as well as our normal rigorous cost reduction efforts. Combined with our pricing actions, we expect our gross margin percent to improve from the first quarter. I'm proud of the operational rigor our teams continue to apply and deliver. We're navigating with discipline and agility while capitalizing on our strong market positions, and we see the benefits in our improving profitability. With that background, let's take a closer look at our segment results. In optical communications, sales grew 28% year over year, reaching $1.2 billion for the first quarter as network operators increased capital spending. Net income was $166 million, up 50% year over year and 7% sequentially. Corning continues to outpace the passive optical market and capture growth which is driven by increased spending on 5G and broadband projects, along with the accelerated pace of data center builds as applications rapidly move to the cloud. Looking ahead, we continue to see strong demand for our optical communication solutions. We believe the industry is at the beginning of a large multiyear wave of growth for passive optical networks. Project Momentum is strong across our customer base and as the broadband equity access and deployment program rolls out, it could add as much as $1 billion a year to our market for four years starting as early as 2023. We believe that the combination of private network and public infrastructure investments will push the market into double-digit growth over the next few years and that our solutions provide advantages particularly lower labor requirements for customers. In display, sales grew 11% year over year to $959 million. Net income was $236 million, also up 11% year over year. Sequentially, the price for display glass was up slightly. As we have previously discussed, the display industry is driven by three main factors: retail demand, panel makers production and glass makers' ability to supply panel makers. We continue to expect that glass at retail will grow in 2022 and by a high single-digit percentage, driven by average screen size growth and TV unit growth. Over the last several months, panel makers have been reducing their capacity utilization rate. We expect additional utilization reductions in the second quarter, and we've reflected that expectation in our guidance. Nevertheless, similar to quarter one, we expect second quarter price to be up slightly sequentially and glass supply and demand to remain tight. Two factors add to glass supply demand tightness. First, over the last 18 months, we have extended tanks beyond their design life to support customer demand. Second, we have completely depleted our inventory leading to higher logistics costs and missed opportunities. So we plan to shut down end-of-life tanks, upgrade to the latest technology and begin to replenish our inventory levels to ensure excellent service for our customers. We feel good about our outlook for 2022. We've completed long-term share agreements that cover well over 90% of our planned volume for the year. In 2022, overall, we expect glass supply to remain tight to balanced and the pricing environment to remain favorable. In total, we're very pleased with display's performance, and we're operating from a position of strength. In specialty materials, sales grew 9% year over year to $493 million. Net income was $75 million, down 18% year over year. This sales growth was driven by our more Corning strategy. Take the Samsung Galaxy S22 series, for example. Our cover materials are on the front and back of these devices, including all 5 rear cameras on the Galaxy S22 Ultra. Also, we continue to benefit from the strength of our new-to-the-world materials. Apple's iPhone 13 launch and legacy product lines like the iPhone 12, which features ceramic shield resulted in increased premium glass sales year over year. In the quarter, investments in innovations that are moving toward commercialization resulted in lower net income versus first quarter 2021. We expect growth to accelerate and profitability to improve throughout the year as we introduce new innovations and capture more content per device. In the first quarter, Environmental Technology sales declined 7% year over year due to automaker production constraints. Net income was $74 million, consistent with 2021. The auto industry has been experiencing variability from ongoing shortages of chips, components and raw materials. As a result, auto production has been paced by component availability versus consumer demand. Once these constraints are relieved, automakers will be able to increase production to satisfy pent-up vehicle demand and we would expect significant sales growth from current levels. Moving to life sciences. Sales increased 3% year over year to $310 million. Net income was $42 million, down 13% year over year, primarily driven by COVID-related operational challenges in the first half of the quarter, which impacted our output. We expect growth going forward with strong demand for our products and production output increasing over first quarter levels. Finally, in Hemlock and emerging growth businesses, sales increased 38% year over year to $375 million, primarily driven by strong performance at Hemlock as we continue to see increased demand for solar materials. Corning Pharmaceutical Technologies also contributed to year-over-year growth. Our portfolio of vials and tubing has enabled the delivery of 5.5 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines and automotive glass solutions grew year over year as well. The company has been awarded more than $1 billion of business from multiple manufacturers and numerous car makes and models. In summary, we grew organic sales $500 million this quarter on a year-over-year basis, we are growing faster than our end markets driven by our more Corning strategy. And as we look ahead, we're confident that our content-driven strategy will continue to create outperformance and growth. Now let's talk about our outlook for the second quarter and how we're viewing the year. For the second quarter, we expect $3.7 billion to $3.9 billion in sales with EPS of $0.54 to $0.59. We expect benefits from pricing actions to accelerate in the quarter. And this guidance reflects our view of the most probable outcomes of potential COVID-19 lockdowns in China. For the full year, we're now expecting to exceed $15 billion in sales with growth at a high single-digit percentage. We expect EPS to grow up to a few percentage points faster than sales and gross margin to expand from the first quarter, and we anticipate another year of strong free cash flow in 2022. Our priorities for capital allocation remain the same, investing in profitable growth opportunities across our market access platforms, extending our leadership and rewarding our shareholders. We expect our return on invested capital to increase as we continue to reuse and repurpose assets, secure customer commitments and deliver on high ROIC projects. We're continuing to build a stronger, more resilient company that can deliver multiyear consistent and profitable growth. Now as I wrap up my formal remarks, I'd like to leave you with a few key highlights. We're off to a great start in Q1. And we see strong demand across all our businesses, and our pricing actions are beginning to take hold with more coming in the second quarter. In display, we achieved a slight price increase in the first quarter. For the second quarter, we expect price to be up slightly sequentially and glass supply and demand to remain tight. We expect Q2 sales in the range of $3.7 billion to $3.9 billion and EPS to be in the range of $0.54 to $0.59. and our guidance reflects our view of the most probable outcomes of potential COVID-19 lockdowns in China. We have an incredible set of opportunities across all of our market access platforms. For example, we see multiyear double-digit growth in optical. Adding mobile consumer electronics, we have an exciting innovations in our pipeline. That will deliver growth in the second half of this year and beyond. In total, we're a stronger and more balanced company today than we were even five years ago. And we are focused on commercial and operational execution to achieve broad-based profitable growth. With that, I'll turn it over to Ann for Q&A.Ann Nicholson -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Catherine. We're ready for our first question. 