  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Intuitive Q2 2021 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later we will have a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. And at this time, I would like to turn the conference over to our host, senior director of finance, investor relations for Intuitive, Mr. Calvin Darling. Please go ahead, sir.Calvin Darling -- Senior Director of Finance, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you. Good afternoon, and welcome to Intuitive's second-quarter earnings conference call. With me today, we have Gary Guthart, our CEO; Marshall Mohr, our CFO; and Jamie Samath, our senior vice president of finance. Philip Kim, our head of investor relations, will not be joining on today's call as he's currently on paternity leave following the birth of his daughter. Before we begin, I would like to inform you that comments mentioned on today's call may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of certain risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are described in detail in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our most recent Form 10-K filed on February 10, 2021; and Form 10-Q filed on April 21, 2021. Our SEC filings can be found through our website or at the SEC's website.Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Please note that this conference call will be available for audio replay on our website at intuitive.com on the latest Events section under our Investor Relations page. Today's press release and supplementary financial data tables have been posted to our website. Today's format will consist of providing you with highlights of our second-quarter results as described in our press release announced earlier today followed by a question-and-answer session. Gary will present the quarter's business and operational highlights. Marshall will provide a review of our financial results. Jamie will discuss procedure and clinical highlights and provide an update of our financial outlook. And finally, we will host a question-and-answer session.

 



 With that, I'll turn it over to Gary. Gary Guthart -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you for joining us today. Our second-quarter 2021 performance was encouraging, with use of our systems for procedures growing beyond pre-pandemic levels and healthy capital placements. Looking at the past eight quarters in context, our compound annual growth rate for procedures for the period Q2 2019 through Q2 2021 of 16.5% is approximately the growth we would have expected absent the pandemic. The pandemic has reordered the quarter in which procedures were performed, and we believe it has delayed some procedures that are likely to return in the future and may cause a small number of patients to permanently forgo surgery. To understand our system placement and capital performance over this period, we look to annual system utilization trends, which have recovered to utilization rates at the high end of our historical averages. Taken together, this combination of a recovery in procedures and healthy utilization supports our solid capital placement trends and rounds out a healthy commercial recovery year to date. Examining procedure trends more deeply. In the United States, procedure growth was strong in the quarter, driven by growth in bariatric surgery, hernia repair, and cholecystectomy.

 



 Both gynecology and urology procedure annualized growth strengthened in the quarter, as pandemic pressures eased in the U.S. Annualized U.S. procedure growth rates are returning to historical levels for procedures with longer diagnostic pipelines as patients have started returning to screening and diagnostic testing. Growth in our second largest market, China, continued to be strong with multiple specialties contributing. European procedure growth was generally healthy, though varied by country. Recovery in the U.K. was healthy in the quarter as NHS increased access to surgeries broadly. The pandemic is not behind us, and additional infection growth may again strain hospital resources and impact our results in the future. Jamie will take you through procedure dynamics in more detail later in the call. On the capital side, new system placements continue to be healthy, with the United States, China, Germany, France, and Japan, notable in the quarter. We know that new system placements are closely tied to anticipated procedure volumes and system utilization in mature markets. We continue to see significant utilization variance by region due to pandemic differences. In the quarter, strong trade-ins of older-generation systems for our fourth-generation products and strength in multi-system deals continue to support our thesis that customers that know us best continue to invest with us going forward. We also saw an increase in our IDN customers opening new da Vinci and Ion programs in hospitals within their network that did not previously have an Intuitive robotics program, indicating their interest in diversifying access to Intuitive programs across their networks. Looking to our finances in the quarter. Procedures recovered nicely in Q2. System placements came in above plan, and system ASP and I&A revenue per procedure tracked slightly above our expectations, together driving revenue of $1.46 billion in Q2. Our pro forma spending grew over 24% from a year ago, representing increased investment in our business. However, our expense growth rate was modestly lower than our plan, driven by pandemic-related factors. COVID has delayed some work in R&D and clinical trials, leading to some underspend in programs, prototypes, and some delay in hiring. We expect these programs to continue their ramp as our labs and development programs recover efficiency. Travel and associated costs in support of our field have also not recovered to pre-pandemic levels. Field and marketing costs will tick up if the pandemic wanes. In short, our commercial business has recovered more quickly than our spending due to the different ways that pandemic impacts our customers, our supply chains, and our hiring. Marshall will take you through our financial picture later in the call. Turning to our innovation and commercialization efforts. We are developing and deploying technology-enabled ecosystems to support our customers' pursuit of the Quadruple Aim, better outcomes, better patient experiences, better care team experiences, and lower total cost to treat per patient episode. We are in the execution and launch phase of four efforts. First, we are broadening access to our advanced instruments for our da Vinci Fourth Generation Multiport Systems through pursuit of additional clearances and launches outside the U.S. Second, we are expanding our da Vinci SP offering by broadening its regional and clinical indications and by adding it to its suite of instruments and accessories. Third, we are launching and refining our flexible diagnostic platform, Ion, by working with early customers to help establish high-performing sites and by improving our technology and supply chain capabilities. Finally, we are strengthening our digital capabilities across our ecosystem. Our fully integrated advanced instruments portfolio has been a strong addition to our multiport ecosystem, allowing for high-quality tissue interaction controlled from the surgeon's console while optimizing workflow. These system-controlled staplers, vessel sealers, and energy instruments support a range of procedures from bariatrics to colorectal procedures, to thoracic and gynecologic applications. Customer appreciation and recurring use of our products has been growing nicely. In Q2, we launched our SureForm stapling line in India. We launched our Force bipolar energy instrument along with our extended use instruments program in Japan, and we launched our SynchroSeal energy instrument and E-100 energy generator in Korea. Turning to our single-port system. We placed four SP systems in the quarter, bringing the total installed base to 79. SP procedures grew 133% year over year, with much of that growth coming from the United States. First cases in our SP colorectal IDE trial were completed in the quarter as we seek to bring SP capability to additional procedures. We are also working on our regulatory filings to bring SP to Europe under the European Union's new medical device regulation framework. Our flexible robotics program, first targeted toward diagnostic bronchoscopy, has had a strong quarter. We placed an additional 20 Ion systems in the quarter, bringing the installed base to 70. Ion procedures grew sixfold over Q2 2020 to nearly 1,500 procedures in the quarter, reflecting recovery from the pandemic, the growth in new sites, and growth in utilization at existing sites. Our total Ion clinical experience is approximately 4,000 cases to date. Clinical trial sites completed enrollment for our PRECIsE clinical trial. Finally, our team is making good progress in scaling our operations. Lastly, we continue to digitally enhance our ecosystem. In the quarter, we continued to engage customers in data analytics and opportunity analysis for surgical programs, cornerstone of our Your Data, Your Truth analytics efforts. We have continued the launch of our My Intuitive app, including launching to first users in Europe. My Intuitive allows surgeons and care team members to access their data, to manage their profile, their learning, and otherwise interact with Intuitive through an easy-to-use mobile app in the palm of their hand. Our digital learning programs continue to be an important part of our overall learning initiatives. These programs together trained over 2,200 care team members in the quarter, showing organizational strength and localizing programs, and responding with agility to pandemic-influenced demand. As the phases of the pandemic evolve, we're supporting our team in addressing the opportunities and challenges posed by the pandemic and the ways we work. Intuitive has managed multiple ways of working for many years. Roughly a third of our team works in the manufacturer test and distribution of our products. Another third works closely with customers in the field, and the remaining third have traditionally worked in lab and office environments. We're taking a first-principles approach to return-to-office environments with our team, bringing back face-to-face interactions for those tasks best completed in person while enabling hybrid work environments for tasks that are well accomplished by distributed teams. Most of our offices globally are reopening with this hybrid approach. We anticipate iterating our approach as we learn and the year progresses. As I conclude, for the balance of the year, we're focused on the following: first, agile and flexible support for our customers globally as they need it, often addressing the return of surgical patients to treatment. Second, disciplined execution of our launches, including our advanced instruments, SP, Ion, and digital efforts. Third, driving depth and excellence in regional performance, particularly in Europe and Asia. And finally, expanding our clinical, economic, and analytical evidence base for key procedures and countries. I'll now turn the time over to Marshall to take you through our financial performance in greater detail.Marshall Mohr -- Chief Financial Officer Good afternoon. I will describe the highlights of our performance on a non-GAAP or pro forma basis. I will also summarize our GAAP performance later in my prepared remarks. A reconciliation between our pro forma and GAAP results is posted on our website. COVID had a significant impact on da Vinci procedure volumes in the second quarter of 2020. That impact was most pronounced in the U.S. and Europe, varied market to market, complicating year-over-year comparisons. In the U.S., as COVID continued to subside in the second quarter of 2021, we saw a lower impact on da Vinci procedures. Procedure growth in the U.S. was led by bariatric cholecystectomy and hernia procedures. We also believe that growth benefited from some procedures that were previously deferred due to delays in testing and patient concern over COVID. While there is likely some amount of backlog that has not yet been addressed, it is difficult to estimate the extent of the remaining backlog and when it will affect future procedure growth. In Europe, the impact of COVID in the second quarter of 2021 varied regionally with slower recovery in Italy and France, while we saw early stages of a recovery in the U.K. While there continues to be COVID hotspots within some of our Asia Pacific markets, overall procedures in the region performed well. China growth in the second quarter continued to be far higher than our other regions, primarily reflecting the 40% system installation growth over the past year. Jamie will provide additional procedure commentary later in this call. Hospitalizations of patients due to COVID have negatively impacted da Vinci procedures. To the extent that hospitalizations expand significantly due to COVID and its variants, like currently being experienced in parts of the world, it could negatively impact da Vinci procedures. Key business metrics for the second quarter were as follows. Second-quarter 2021 procedures increased approximately 68% compared with the second quarter of 2020 and increased approximately 13% compared with last quarter. Compound annual growth between the second quarters of 2019 and 2021 was 16.5%. Second-quarter system placements of 328 systems increased 84%, compared with 178 systems for the second quarter of 2020, and increased 10%, compared with 298 systems last quarter. We expanded our installed base of da Vinci Systems over the last year by 10% to approximately 6,335 systems. This growth rate compares with 9% last year and 8% last quarter. Utilization of clinical systems in the field, measured by procedures per system, increased approximately 55% compared with last year and increased 11% compared with last quarter. The compounded annual utilization growth rate between the second quarters of 2019 and 2021 was 6%. Moving on to capital placements. System placements in the quarter reflected procedure growth and hospitals upgrading to -- in order to access or standardize on fourth-generation capabilities. Capital placements for the first six months of 2021 were in line with procedure and utilization growth. Looking forward, we see the following capital revenue dynamics. Procedure growth drives capital purchases in many of our markets. To the extent that COVID impacts procedures, it will also impact capital purchases. The trade-in cycle has been a tailwind to system placements. However, as the installed base of older-generation product declines, the number of trade-ins will decline over time. Leasing and alternative financing arrangements enable customer access to capital. While the percentage of systems placed under operating leases fluctuates quarter to quarter, we believe leasing will increase as a percentage of sales over time, which will result in the deferral of otherwise current revenue into future periods. Macroeconomic conditions created by COVID could regionally impact hospital capital spending. And as competition progresses in various markets, we will likely experience longer selling cycles and price pressures. Additional revenue statistics and trends are as follows. Total second-quarter revenue was $1.464 billion, representing a 72% increase from last year and a 13% increase from last quarter. The compound annual revenue growth rate between the second quarters of 2019 and 2021 was 15%. Second-quarter revenue reflected growth in both procedures and system placements. Leasing represented 33% of current quarter placements, compared with 29% last year and 43% last quarter. In the quarter, we completed a number of placements with larger IDNs that prefer to purchase rather than lease product. Leasing as a percentage of total sales lag has and will continue to fluctuate with customer and geographic mix. However, we anticipate more customers will seek leasing or alternative financing arrangements than reflected in historical run rates. Thirty-eight percent of systems placed in the second quarter involved trade-ins, which is lower than the 40% last year and the 44% last quarter. As customers continue to upgrade to fourth-generation capabilities, the population of installed SIs is decreasing, particularly in the U.S. were 110 trade-ins were completed in the second quarter, leaving an installed base of SIs of approximately 500 systems. As a result, we expect lower trade-in transactions over time. Trade-in activity can fluctuate and be difficult to predict. Second-quarter system average selling prices decreased to $1.55 million from $1.65 million for both the second quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021. The decrease relative to these prior periods reflects geographic mix and volume discounts provided to customers purchasing multiple systems. We recognized $26 million of lease buyout revenue in the second quarter, compared with $9 million last year and $19 million last quarter. Lease buyout revenue has varied significantly quarter to quarter and will likely continue to do so. Instrument and accessory revenue per procedure of $1,940 increased, compared with $1,900 per procedure for the second quarter of last year, and decreased, compared with $1,950 per procedure in the first quarter. Extended use instruments were introduced into the U.S. and Europe in the fourth quarter, in most other markets in the first six months of this year, except China due to regulatory timelines. In the U.S. and Europe, extended use instruments were nearly fully adopted in the second quarter. The year-over-year increase in I&A revenue per procedure reflects increased usage of our advanced instruments, partially offset by the impact of extended use instruments. We believe that globally, customers have had not completely adjusted their instrument buying patterns to reflect the additional uses per instrument. Customer adjustment of buying patterns will reduce I&A revenue per procedure. Four of the systems placed in the first quarter were SP Systems, reflecting continued measured rollout of SP. Our installed base of SP Systems is now 79: eight in Korea and 71 in the U.S. We completed first cases associated with a U.S. colorectal clinical trial in the second quarter. We placed 20 Ion systems in the quarter, bringing the installed base to 70 systems. There were nearly 1,500 Ion procedures completed in the second quarter. Ion system placements and procedures are excluded from our overall system and procedure counts. The supply issues we called out in the first quarter did not impact Ion placements and procedures in this quarter. Our rollout of Ion will continue to be measured while we optimize training pathways in our supply chain. Outside the U.S., we placed 115 systems in the second quarter, compared with 72 in the second quarter of 2020 and 108 systems last quarter. Current quarter system placements included 63 into Europe, 16 into Japan, and 19 into China, compared with 18 into Europe, 18 into Japan, and 21 into China in the second quarter of 2020. Moving on to gross margin and operating expenses. Pro forma gross margin for the second quarter of 2021 was 71.7%, compared with 62.4% for the second quarter of 2020 and 71.8% last quarter. The second quarter of 2020 included $59 million of service credits issued in conjunction with our Customer Relief Program, higher period costs associated with lower production, and higher excess and obsolete inventory charges. The first and second quarters of 2021 reflect leveraging fixed costs over higher production levels. Product and customer mix fluctuate quarter to quarter, which can cause fluctuations in gross margins. COVID has impacted global supplies of semiconductors and other materials used in our products, while we carry safety stocks of critical components and are otherwise working to secure supply necessary to ensure fulfillment of customer demand, global shortages could result in higher production costs and production development and regulatory delays. Pro forma operating expenses increased 24% compared with the second quarter of 2020 and increased 5% compared with last quarter. The increase compared to prior year reflects costs associated with higher headcount, increased variable compensation, and increased spending in areas impacted by COVID. Second-quarter spending was below our expectations due to activities restricted by COVID, including clinical development, marketing events, and travel costs. In addition, COVID delayed some R&D work, resulting in underspend on prototypes. We expect spending on activities restricted by COVID to increase as the impacts of the pandemic decline. We also expect spending to increase as a percentage of revenue as investments in headcount, infrastructure, and other support areas catch up to the growth in the business. Finally, we expect to continue to invest in expanding and accelerating our ecosystem of products and capabilities. Jamie will provide spend guidance later in this call. Our pro forma effective tax rate for the second quarter was approximately 25%. In the second quarter, we modified the useful life of a deferred-tax asset, which resulted in a current charge to pro forma income. However, that charge generated -- that change generated a long-term benefit of $66 million that is recognized currently in GAAP income and will be recognized ratably over approximately 10 years in pro forma income. The charge associated with the deferred-tax asset and a higher mix of U.S. income drove the 25% current quarter pro forma rate. We expect our pro forma rate for the last six months of 2021 to be between 21% and 22% versus our previous guidance of 20% to 21%, reflecting a greater proportion of U.S. income for the year. Our actual tax rate will fluctuate with changes in the geographic mix of income, changes in taxation made by local authorities, and with the impact of one-time items. Our second-quarter pro forma net income was $477 million or $3.92 per share, compared with $132 million or $1.11 per share for the second quarter of 2020 and $427 million or $3.52 per share for the last quarter. I will now summarize our GAAP results. GAAP net income was $517 million or $4.25 per share for the second quarter of 2021, compared with GAAP net income of $68 million or $0.57 per share for the second quarter of 2020 and GAAP net income of $426 million or $3.51 per share for the last quarter. The adjustments between pro forma and GAAP net income are outlined and quantified on our website. We ended the quarter with cash and investments of $7.7 billion, compared with $7.2 billion last quarter. The increase in cash in the second quarter primarily reflected cash from operations and stock exercises. We did not repurchase any shares in the quarter. And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Jamie.Jamie Samath -- Senior Vice President of Finance Good afternoon. Our overall second-quarter procedure growth was 68%, compared to a decline of 19% during the second quarter of 2020, which reflected a significant adverse impact from the COVID-19 pandemic. The compound annual growth rate between the second quarter of 2019 and the second quarter of 2021 was 16.5%. In Q2, U.S. procedures grew 77% year over year, which equates to 16% on a two-year compound annual growth rate basis. OUS markets grew 51% year over year or 19% on a two-year compound annual growth rate basis. In the U.S., Q2 procedure results were positively impacted by a continuing recovery from COVID-19, including, we believe, a number of procedures that had been previously deferred. Q2 growth was driven by particular strength in benign procedures, including bariatrics, hernia repair, cholecystectomy, and benign hysterectomy, reflecting in part, we believe, a partial catch-up in these procedures related to the previous deferral of elective surgeries. General surgery growth in the U.S. was strong, and in addition to the positive impact from patient backlogs, reflected increasing access for surgeons to our fourth-generation technology. In the U.S., procedures that are dependent on diagnostic pipelines also grew, albeit at lower rates as compared to benign procedures. Colorectal growth was strong, with solid growth in malignant hysterectomy, thoracic, and prostatectomy procedures. Based on market data, we believe that diagnostic pipelines in the U.S. began to recover from the impact of the pandemic in March, with a lag in the recovery of associated procedures. Second-quarter OUS procedure volume grew approximately 51%, compared with a 7% decline for the second quarter of 2020 and 23% growth last quarter. Second-quarter 2021 OUS procedure growth was driven by growth in prostatectomy procedures and earlier-stage growth in kidney cancer procedures, general surgery, gynecology, and thoracic. China procedure growth remains strong and broad-based as a result of continued expansion of the installed base under the current quota. Growth in Japan was solid but was impacted by a relatively slow rollout of vaccines and the impact of localized lockdowns as a result of ongoing efforts to prevent resurgences of COVID-19. In Europe, procedure growth varied by country based on the relative impact of and recovery from the pandemic. Growth in the U.K. was strong, with a slower recovery in France, Italy, and Germany. Now turning to the clinical side of our business. Each quarter on these calls, we highlight certain recently published studies that we deem to be notable. However, to gain a more complete understanding of the body of evidence, we encourage all stakeholders to thoroughly review the extensive detail of scientific studies that have been published over the years. During the quarter, a group from the Shenzhen Hospital Naval Medical University in China, published a meta-analysis in BMC cancer comparing robotic-assisted thoracic surgery versus video-assisted thoracic surgery, or VATs, for lung lobectomy or segmentectomy in patients with nonsmall cell lung cancer. The meta-analysis combined 18 studies across different countries containing over 11,000 patients, of which just over 5,000 received da Vinci robotic-assisted thoracic surgery and just over 6,000 received VATs. The results of the meta-analysis found that robotic-assisted thoracic surgery compared to VATs was associated with, among others, the following significant findings: 50.4 milliliters lower blood loss, a 50% lower chance of conversion to an open procedure, a 1.1 day shorter stay in the hospital and a 10% less chance of patient experience to postoperative complication. The authors concluded, "The results revealed that robotic-assisted thoracic surgery is a feasible and safe technique compared with VATs in terms of short-term and long-term outcomes." In May of this year, Dr. Karl LeBlanc from our Lady of the Lake Medical Center in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, published results from a multi-center study comparing short-term outcomes for incisional hernia, published in the Hernia Journal entitled Robotic-Assisted Laparoscopic and Open Incisional Hernia Repair: Early Outcomes from the Prospective Hernia study. The study contains 371 patients that underwent an incisional hernia repair procedure across 17 institutions within the United States between May 2016 and September 2019. Of those patients, 43% were in the da Vinci robotic cohort, 35% in the laparoscopic cohort, and 22% in the open cohort. In reporting the results, adjusted using a propensity weighted approach, the authors noted that during the two- to four-week standard of care visit period, fewer patients report the need to take prescription pain medication for the robotic cohort as compared to the laparoscopic and open cohorts: 65.2% for the robotic cohort as compared to 78.8% for the laparoscopic cohort, compared to 79.8% for the open cohort. Conversion rates to open surgery were lower in the robotic group compared to the laparoscopic group, 0.6% as compared to 4.9%, and reoperation rates in the 30 days post procedure were comparable between robotic and laparoscopic and lower for robotic as compared to open, 0.6% as compared to 3.1%. The authors concluded in part, "When compared to open, the robotic-assisted surgery group is associated with a comparable operative time, shorter length of stay and lower reoperation rate through 30 days. The difference in the number of subjects reporting the need for prescription pain medication favored the robotic-assisted group in both comparisons." I will now turn to our financial outlook for 2021. We continue to operate in a challenging supply chain environment and have experienced longer lead times and delayed deliveries from our suppliers. While this did not have a material impact to our operating results in Q2, the outlook we are providing does not reflect any potential significant disruption or additional costs related to supply constraints. We also note the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in certain geographies associated with the Delta variant. The outlook we are providing on today's call does not reflect risks associated with a significant increase in COVID-related hospitalizations in relation to the Delta variant or other potential new variants. Starting with procedures. Last quarter, we forecast 2021 procedure growth of 22% to 26%. Given the stronger recovery of procedures we have experienced so far, particularly in the U.S., and strength in U.S. general surgery, we are now increasing our forecast and expect full-year 2021 procedure growth of 27% to 30%. The high end of the range assumes strength in U.S. general surgery, a return to normalized diagnostic pipelines, the vaccines are effective against any new COVID-19 variants and the vaccine rollouts in OUS markets continue as currently expected by governments around the world. Turning to gross profit. On our last call, we forecast our 2021 full-year pro forma gross profit margin to be within 70% and 71% of revenue. We are now slightly increasing our forecast and expect full-year gross profit margin to be between 70.5% and 71.5% of revenue. Our actual gross profit margin will vary quarter to quarter depending largely on product, regional, and trade-in mix, the impact of product cost reductions, and manufacturing efficiencies and pricing pressure. With respect to operating expenses, on our last call, we forecast to grow full-year pro forma 2021 operating expenses between 18% and 22% above 2020 levels. We are refining our estimate and expect our full-year pro forma operating expense growth to be between 17% and 21%. Consistent with the last quarter's forecast, we expect our noncash stock compensation expense to range between $450 million and $470 million in 2021. We expect pro forma other income, which is comprised mostly of interest income, to total between $50 million and $55 million in 2021. With regard to income tax, we expect the range of our second-half 2021 pro forma tax rate to be between 21% and 22% of pre-tax income, slightly higher than the range we provided on the last call, reflecting a higher mix of U.S. income. That concludes our prepared comments. We will now open the call to your questions. 