  OperatorGood morning. My name is Jerome, and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Inc. third-quarter 2021 earnings teleconference. Our host for today's call will be chairman and chief executive officer, Laurence D. Fink; chief financial officer, Gary S. Shedlin; president, Robert S. Kapito; and general counsel, Christopher J. Meade. [Operator instructions] Thank you. Mr. Meade, you may begin your conference.

 



Chris Meade -- General Counsel Thank you. Good morning, everyone. I'm Chris Meade, the general counsel of BlackRock. Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of this call, we may make a number of forward-looking statements. We call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may, of course, differ from these statements. As you know, BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC, which lists some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today. BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements. So with that, I'll turn it over to Gary.Gary Shedlin -- Chief Financial Officer

 



 Thanks, Chris, and good morning, everyone. It's my pleasure to present results for the third quarter of 2021. Before I turn it over to Larry to offer his comments, I'll review our financial performance and business results. While our earnings release discloses both GAAP and as-adjusted financial results, I will be focusing primarily on our as-adjusted results. BlackRock's proven track record of delivering for stakeholders reflects our ongoing commitment to anticipate change before it happens and continually invest for the long term. Our globally integrated investment and technology platform enables us to construct resilient whole portfolios for clients. We rely on thought leadership, global investment insights and state-of-the-art risk management tools to help clients navigate ever-changing and increasingly volatile market environments. Our approach is resonating more than ever and is reflected in the continued strong momentum we are seeing across our entire platform. BlackRock generated total net inflows of $75 billion in the third quarter. $98 billion of long-term net inflows, representing approximately 4% annualized organic asset growth were partially offset by net outflows from lower fee cash and advisory AUM. In addition, strong net inflows from ETFs and our active franchise once again contributed to this quarter's 9% annualized organic base fee growth. Over the last 12 months, our differentiated investment management platform, which pairs active and index capabilities across the entire range of traditional and alternative products, has now generated over $450 billion of total net inflows representing 13% organic base fee growth well in excess of our 5% long-term target. Third-quarter revenue of $5.1 billion increased 16% year over year while operating income of $1.9 billion rose 11% and reflected the impact of approximately $96 million of fund launch costs primarily associated with the successful launch of a $2 billion closed-end fund in late September. Earnings per share of $10.95 was up 19% compared to a year ago, also reflecting significantly higher nonoperating income in the current quarter. Nonoperating results for the quarter included $298 million of net investment income primarily driven by noncash gains related to our strategic minority investments in iCapital and Scalable Capital as well as mark-to-market gains in our private equity co-investment portfolio. Our as-adjusted tax rate for the third quarter was approximately 24%.

 



 We continue to estimate that 24% is a reasonable projected tax run rate for the fourth quarter of 2021, though the actual effective tax rate may differ as a consequence of nonrecurring or discrete items or potential changes in tax legislation. Third quarter base fees and securities lending revenue of $3.9 billion increased 22% year over year reflecting the positive impact of market beta on average AUM and 13% organic base fee growth despite higher discretionary money market fee waivers and strategic pricing investments over the last year. Sequentially, base fee and securities lending revenue was up 5%. Our third quarter annualized effective fee rate on a day count equivalent basis increased by 0.2 basis points from the second quarter as the positive impact of strong organic base fee growth driven by our higher fee active businesses, and lower discretionary money market fee waivers more than offset the negative impact of divergent equity beta primarily associated with the accelerating decline in emerging markets during the current quarter. During the third quarter, we incurred approximately $130 million of gross discretionary yield support waivers. Lower discretionary yield support waivers in the current quarter were linked to the Fed's technical adjustments to the IOER and RRP in June as well as outflows from U.S. government money market funds during the current quarter. Performance fees of $345 million reflect generally strong performance from our single strategy hedge fund platform over the last year. The decline in year-over-year fees reflected lower revenue from a single hedge fund with an annual performance measurement period that ends in the third quarter and which delivered truly exceptional performance a year ago partially offset by higher revenue from illiquid products. Quarterly technology services revenue increased 13% from a year ago. Annual contract value, or ACV, increased 16% year over year and continued to reflect strong growth from the third quarter of 2020, which was impacted by slower sales and extended contracting in the early months of the pandemic. We remain committed to low to mid-teens growth in ACV over the long term. Total expense increased 19% versus the year ago quarter driven primarily by higher G&A, compensation and direct fund expense. G&A expense was up $139 million or 30% year over year primarily driven by higher technology and portfolio services expense in the current quarter. Third quarter G&A expense also included $96 million of fund launch costs primarily associated with our first ESG-oriented closed-end fund, the $2 billion BlackRock ESG Capital Allocation Trust, and $29 million of contingent consideration fair value adjustments related to the estimated final payment on our successful Citibanamex acquisition in 2018. Recall that we exclude the impact of product launch costs when reporting our as-adjusted operating margin. Core G&A expense for the third quarter, which excludes the impact of product launch and transaction-related costs, was up 3% from the second quarter. We have made no changes to the discretionary investment spending plans we have previously outlined and would expect a sequential increase in our fourth quarter core G&A spend to be generally consistent with previous years reflecting seasonal increases in marketing spend, additional costs related to return-to-office planning and ongoing technology costs associated with Aladdin cloud migrations. Employee compensation and benefit expense was up $116 million or 8% from a year ago primarily reflecting higher base compensation and higher deferred compensation related to the impact of grants associated with 2020 compensation. Direct fund expense increased 38% year over year primarily reflecting higher average index AUM and intangible amortization expense increased $11 million year over year due to our Aperio acquisition. Our third quarter as-adjusted operating margin of 45.8% was down 120 basis points from a year ago as operating leverage was more than offset by the impact of lower performance fees, higher contingent consideration fair value adjustments and higher intangible amortization expense compared to a year ago. We're seeing more opportunities to invest for growth than ever before. We reopened the closed-end fund market in 2019 by making it more efficient for investors to access products at NAV. By synthetically seeding these new funds, we've now raised $14 billion in active AUM, representing over $170 million in new revenue. Our strategic minority investments in iCapital and Scalable Capital are reinforcing our tech-for-flow strategy and simultaneously generating very attractive returns for shareholders. And we continue to build our best-in-class ESG capabilities, most recently by acquiring Rhodium's models related to the physical risks associated with climate change; effective use of our balance sheet to seed new products, co-invest alongside clients or makes strategic minority investments, both supports our growth and drives value for our shareholders. And while our capital management strategy remains, first, to invest in our business, we also remain committed to returning excess cash to shareholders and repurchased an additional $300 million worth of shares in the third quarter. As we discussed at investor day, we continue to invest in our highest growth franchises, such as ETFs, private markets and technology, and we are accelerating investments to drive growth in our sustainable traditional active and solutions capabilities. Each of these areas once again delivered strong results in the third quarter. Quarterly long-term net inflows of $98 billion were driven by continued momentum in our ETF and active platforms. Our ETFs generated net inflows of $58 billion in the third quarter, positive across each of our product categories, representing 7% annualized organic base fee growth. ETFs attributable to our strategic category drove over 50% of net inflows in the quarter reflecting continued strength in fixed income and sustainable ETFs. Core equity and higher fee precision exposure ETFs saw net inflows of $16 billion and $9 billion, respectively, led by U.S. equity exposures. Retail net inflows of $23 billion, representing 11% annualized organic base fee growth, were positive in both the U.S. and internationally and across all major asset classes. Retail multi-asset results included the impact of the previously mentioned $2 billion closed-end fund raised in late September. Inflows continue to reflect broad-based strength across our active platform and we remain well-positioned to meet investor needs for risk-adjusted alpha and yield in the current market environment. BlackRock's institutional active net inflows of $26 billion, representing 6% annualized organic base fee growth, were led by $25 billion of multi-asset net inflows. Growth included the impact of a significant outsourced CIO mandate from the Asia Pacific client, continuing our momentum in an important growth area, where we are providing cost-effective whole portfolio solutions to the world's most sophisticated institutional clients. We also saw continued demand for our LifePath target date offerings, and Larry will update you about a recent milestone for our new LifePath Paycheck retirement solution. Institutional index net outflows of $8 billion broadly reflected equity net outflows, which were partially offset by fixed income net inflows as clients continue to rebalance portfolios after significant market, equity market gains were sort to immunize portfolios through LDI strategies. Overall, BlackRock generated approximately $45 billion in quarterly active net inflows across the platform, including our tenth consecutive quarter of positive active equity flows. Demand for alternatives also continued with nearly $7 billion of net inflows into liquid and illiquid alternative strategies during the quarter, driven by single-strategy hedge funds, private credit, real assets and private equity solutions. Fundraising momentum remains strong, and we have approximately $29 billion of committed capital to deploy for institutional clients in a variety of alternative strategies, representing a significant source of future base and performance fees. BlackRock's cash management platform experienced net outflows of $12 billion driven primarily by redemptions from U.S. government and offshore sterling prime money market funds in line with the broader U.S. money market fund industry. BlackRock's diverse cash management offerings position us well to serve clients' needs, and you will hear more from Larry about how we are expanding our ESG cash offerings to enhance our competitive positioning even further. Finally, third quarter advisory net outflows of $10 billion were primarily linked to the successful planned wind-downs of portfolios managed by our Financial Markets Advisory Group on behalf of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Recall that revenue linked to these assignments is primarily reflected in the advisory and other revenue line item on our income statement. BlackRock's continued strong performance reflects our commitment to strategically invest in our business, in anticipation of change and to lead the evolution of the asset management industry. Today, we see even greater opportunity to invest in our employees and our clients and in the communities in which we operate to ensure that we will continue to optimize organic growth in the most efficient way possible. With that, I'll turn it over to Larry.Larry Fink -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Gary. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining the call. I truly hope that all of you are staying healthy and safe. Fortunately, I've been traveling again, and in recent months, to see clients worldwide. It's great to be back in the road meeting face-to-face with our clients, and I found our clients actually more engaged, more interested in our conversations than ever before. As investors continue to navigate uncertainty in the markets and in the broader global economic outlook, BlackRock is partnering more closely with our clients to help them achieve long-term -- their long-term goals and helping them seeking new opportunities. BlackRock is providing insights on the global economy, guidance on how to navigate the market volatility and providing solutions for their entire portfolio. Our comprehensive unified investment and technology platform, combined with our steadfast client-centric approach, is enabling us to deliver constantly and consistently strong results for our stakeholders. Long-term net inflows of $98 billion in the third quarter represented 9% organic base fee growth, were driven by continued strength in our strategic growth opportunities that we've spoken to in the past. Our consecutive quarters of strong growth are the direct results of these investments that we've made over time to enhance and evolve our business and to be more prepared for the needs of our clients. We have now delivered organic base fee growth in excess of our 5% target for six consecutive quarters, including 13% growth over the last 12 months. And we also generated 30% year-over-year growth in technology services revenues as more clients are turning to Aladdin to execute on their growth aspirations and to helping them scale their business. After our promising global economic restart earlier this year, we saw certain countries and markets take a step back in recent months as they are confronted with the economic -- with virus variants and economic issues. Concerns around slowing economic growth are increasing while policymakers are evaluating the timing and pace of easing, whether it's rate hikes or reduction in bond purchases. And with interest rates still at historically low levels, investors need solutions that can earn a real yield and be resilient in a higher inflationary world. Inflationary trends are appearing more than transitory, reflecting structural changes, including a shift from consumerism to job creation, rising wage growth and the energy transition. As I said in a speech to the G20 in July, society needs to rapidly invest in innovation to offset inflationary pressures associated with the transition to a net zero economy. We need to make sure that we are pushing just as hard on the demand side as we are on the supply side. Otherwise, we risk supply issues that drive up the cost for consumers, especially for those who can least afford it. Against this backdrop, clients are turning to BlackRock more than ever before, and we are using the full breadth of our capabilities to meet all our clients' needs. BlackRock's top-performing active platform continues to outpace the industry, generating $45 billion of net inflows in the quarter and nearly $200 billion over the last 12 months. Momentum in active equities continue, and BlackRock's No. 1 in year-to-date asset-gathering in the U.S. active equity mutual fund industry, up from No. 3 in 2020. These results reflect our investments over time to incorporate data science, integrate ESG considerations and enhancing portfolio construction capabilities across the entire active business. And we remain committed to continuous innovation so we can deliver strong and durable alpha for our clients over the long term. In addition to our traditional active strategies, we're also seeing clients increase portfolio allocation to private markets. As they reach for yield, institutions are turning to BlackRock for private credit, real estate and private equity solutions. And well, we are seeing advisors access private markets through our record -- our recent closed-end fund vehicle, which have up to 25% allocation to alternatives and our accredited investor solutions. In total, we raised about $5 billion of illiquid alternative flows and commitments in the quarter, and we continue to steadily deploy that capital for our clients. Portfolio construction and asset allocation decisions are critical in achieving desired returns, and more clients are adopting our ETFs as a building block in their portfolios. We generated $58 billion of ETF net inflows in the third quarter with growth across each of our core strategic and precision product categories, including strong flows in fixed income as clients sought inflation protection and sources of income. We crossed $200 billion in ETF inflows year to date, exceeding our 2020 full-year flows. We are seeing this momentum across the entire ETF industry as more and more investors discover the convenience, the efficiency and the transparency that the ETF vehicle has. We see opportunities well beyond the 30 million people who use our ETFs today and continue to believe in the long-term growth potential for ETFs. And we will remain confident in our ability to deliver strong organic base fee growth and lead the industry. In my conversations with clients, I hear about how they are looking to focus on their core business and partner with select investment managers that have the expertise, the technology, the scale to navigate the increasingly complex markets. We see outsourcing of portfolio management through OCIO for institutions and for model portfolios for the wealth managers, both of which are fast-growing areas of the industry. BlackRock is well-positioned to capture this opportunity and partner with our clients across our whole portfolio. Few asset managers have the scale and the diversity of offerings to do this, and the consolidation we have seen in the industry is a further validation of our business model that we've already built here at BlackRock. We are also innovating to expand client options for how they participate in proxy voting decisions. Much like asset allocation and portfolio construction, where some clients now can take an active role, while others outsource these decisions to us. More of our clients are interested in voting on their index holdings. This is another great example of One BlackRock effort to further democratize choice for our clients and is in line with our commitment to provide them with the broadest range of options. Client demand for more holistic and flexible technology-driven solutions is also increasing. Technology services grew -- revenues grew by 13% year over year as Aladdin's capturing opportunity from industry shifts. And we are leveraging our user provider model to further evolve Aladdin. The combination of Aladdin and eFront has been well-received by clients, and we now have over two dozen clients using both across their entire whole portfolios. As we've done throughout our history, we continue to invest ahead of our clients' needs and evolve BlackRock to lead in the biggest long-term opportunities of the future. And we are seeing meaningful progress in executing on these opportunities. In sustainability, momentum remained strong, and we generated another $31 billion of net inflows across all regions. Active sustainable net inflows of $7 billion were led by the launch of our ESG capital allocation trust closed-end fund, which Gary mentioned earlier. As ETFs, in ETFs, iShares is a leading sustainable provider, capturing nearly 50% of the industry category inflows year to date. In Europe, almost half of all industry flows are now going into sustainable ETFs, up from less than 10% just three years ago. Clients also want impact-oriented strategies that seek to deliver a targeted environmental or social outcome. We recently repurposed one of our money market funds to seek positive social outcomes by supporting a diverse trading ecosystem. BlackRock will also be contributing 5% of our management fees, net revenues from the funds to support students at historically black colleges and universities and predominantly black institutions. This fund has already grown more than 40% -- 20% to $4.5 billion since its conversion in July, and we are proud to work together with our clients to help make a positive impact on the futures of many diverse students, on the futures of many diverse business owners and in their own communities. BlackRock is also supporting clean energy solutions that change the demand curve for hydrocarbons, which is actually accelerating today in driving energy prices higher. The gap in cost between clean energy technologies and those that will emit greater amounts of greenhouse gases is still very large for most things, which is why BlackRock is supporting a range of initiatives to help bring down the green premium of clean energy. Building on our partnership with Temasek earlier this year to advance a decarbonization solution, the BlackRock Foundation announced last month, a $100 million grant to breakthrough energy catalyst program. This grant will help speed the development and commercialization of clean energy technologies. And BlackRock will provide our investment expertise as the program deploys its financing around the world. We have a long history of innovating to help millions of people worldwide improve retirement readiness. And today, we are the largest investment-only defined contribution provider in the industry with over $1 trillion of assets under management on behalf of over 7,200 defined contribution plans -- excuse me, 72,000 defined contribution plans. Our target aid franchise, LifePath, has seen $23 billion of net inflows so far this year representing a 9% organic growth rate far in excess and broader in the target date industry. And we continue to innovate ahead of the future needs of our clients. We recently announced a significant milestone in our retirement income solution. LifePath Paycheck. Five large plan sponsors, whose plan together represents about $7.5 billion in target date investments, have elected to work with BlackRock to implement our LifePath Paycheck solution as a default investment option in their investment retirement plans, subject to necessary approvals and conditions. We remain committed to working alongside our clients and partners to help more people address the challenges of spending and income in retirement. We believe that globally integrated financial markets provide people, companies and governments with better and more efficient access to capital that supports economic growth around the world. This conviction drives our long-term strategy in China, and it has in every community in every country where we operate. BlackRock's clients have benefited from our focus on the long term, and we will bring this perspective to help global clients invest in China, and importantly, to deliver investment solutions to Chinese investors. After receiving our FMC and WMC license earlier this year, we launched our first two products in the third quarter, raising over $1 billion in two weeks for more than 110,000 investors. This milestone demonstrates the value proposition of BlackRock's platform and the strength of our partnerships. It also highlights the start of BlackRock's living its purpose in China by helping more people secure in China a better future and investing in the long-term and retiring, hopefully, in dignity. Just as we continue to evolve our business to meet client needs, we also evolve our entire organization. A key driver of BlackRock success over the years has been our focus and deliberate talent processes on delivering leaders with a broad range of expertise, a deep commitment to the firm in a One BlackRock mindset. This commitment to the evolution also extends to our Board of Directors. We recently elected two new directors to our board: Beth Ford, president and CEO of Land of the Lake; and Kristin Peck, CEO of Zoetis. Beth and Kristin are recognized leaders in their respective industries, and they bring a wide range of valuable perspectives and experiences that will help BlackRock and the board navigate our future on behalf of all our shareholders. Looking ahead, I am confident the investments we are making today will enable us to capture greater opportunities and to deliver industry-leading growth in the years to come. More immediately, I'm very excited to welcome our colleagues back to BlackRock's offices in certain parts of the world where we begin our future work pilot. It's our culture which can't be built or maintained remotely over the long term. That ensures we can never forget who we are, who we serve. It also helps us in our markets, in our industry and, most importantly, helps us continue to evolve and experience the constant change of the world. Having togetherness and connection with all our employees is vital for our culture and vital for serving the needs of our clients. With that, let's open it up for questions. 