
OperatorGood morning. Welcome to Baxter's International Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material. It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Clare Trachtman, Vice President, Investor Relations at Baxter International. Ms. Trachtman, you may begin.Clare Trachtman -- Vice President of Investor RelationsGood morning. And welcome to our third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Joining me today are Joe Almeida, Baxter's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Jay Saccaro, Baxter's Chief Financial Officer. On the call this morning, we will be discussing Baxter's third quarter 2021 financial results and fourth quarter and full year 2021 financial outlook. With that, let me start our prepared remarks by reminding everyone that this presentation, including comments regarding our financial outlook for the fourth quarter and full year 2021, the pending acquisition of Hillrom, new product development business development and regulatory matters, contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. And of course, our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more detail concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. In addition, on today's call, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Joe. Joe?

 



Jose E. Almeida -- Chairman of the Board, President & Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Claire. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining the call. As usual, I will begin with an overview of Baxter's third quarter performance. Jay would take a closer look at the financials and outlook for the rest of the year. Then we will close with your questions. Clearly, the most notable highlight from the quarter is last month's announcement of our agreement to acquire Hillrom, subject to the approval of Hillrom shareholders and other customary closing conditions. I recently made site visits to select Hillrom locations as part of our integration planning process and I was joined by other members of our senior leadership team, meeting face-to-face with Hillrom's dedicated employees and touring the facilities only underscored our confidence and enthusiasm for the proposed acquisition of Hillrom. Upon closing of the transaction, we plan to bring a broader array of products and services to patients and clinicians across the care continuum and around the world. We are focused on identifying opportunities to further accelerate innovation to address the rapidly evolving needs of our customers. The teams are working diligently on plans to bring together these two complementary portfolios to deliver enhanced value for our stakeholders. We look forward to updating you on these acceleration opportunities following the close of the deal. Earlier this month, the Hart-Scott-Rodino or HSR waiting period in the U.S. expired with no issuance of a second request by the FTC. While the FTC reserves its right to take further action, this is a key milestone to clear the way for a successful closing. We are in the process of securing all remaining global regulatory approvals required for closing. And the Hillrom shareholder meeting to vote on the transaction is currently scheduled for December 2. In addition, our integration planning management office is up and running with teams from both organizations preparing for a swift, effective combination once the deal closes. We will expect to close by early 2022. Moving on to the third quarter financial performance. I'm pleased to report solid ongoing momentum as we make our way toward the close of the fiscal year. Baxter delivered third quarter sales growth of 9% on a reported basis, 7% at a constant currency and 6% operationally. Like last quarter, growth was impacted by the continuing, if somewhat erratic, pace of COVID-19 pandemic recovery, while the pandemic still represented a headwind to top line sales in the quarter, the magnitude of this headwind has continued to decline, reflecting the improved rate of hospital admissions in the U.S. as well as ongoing pandemic recovery in international markets. This resulted in a favorable comparison to the same period last year. On the bottom line, third quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.02, up 23% and exceeded our third quarter guidance. Positive mix and disciplined expense management drove the favorability.As you saw in our earnings release, all of our geographic segments and product categories contributed to the positive performance in the quarter. The pace of pandemic recovery continues to vary by both therapeutic and geographic market. Our broad global footprint and diverse portfolio of essential products combined to help mitigate the variability and shore up the strength of our overall enterprise. We also benefit from our resilience and agility, which have been greatly enhanced through our ongoing transformation. Looking at performance by business, growth was led by BioPharma Solutions which advanced 45% at constant currency rates. Performance was driven by revenues related to our manufacturing of multiple COVID-19 vaccines. Medication Delivery grew at 11% constant currency, reflecting the improved rate of U.S. hospital admissions in new infusion pump contract with a large health system in the U.S. and increased demand for Baxter's small volume parenterals. With respect to our NOVUM IQ 510(k) submission, we are continuing to work with the FDA to address their questions on our submission. While we hope to receive clearance by the end of this year, it is possible it may shift into early 2022. In Pharmaceuticals, 7% constant currency growth reflects the benefit of our acquisition of specified rights outside the U.S. to Caelyx and Doxil. Adjusting results for the acquisition, operational growth rose 1%. Year-over-year growth in the quarter reflects lower U.S. sales in part due to a large pandemic-related government order received in Q3 2020 and softness in inhaled anesthesia. This challenging comparison was offset by strong growth internationally, driven by our pharmacy compounding business. Our third quarter launch of premix norepinephrine was met with strong demand, part of an increasing trend as hospital pharmacies embrace premix formulated drugs and other products that improve efficiency, particularly in the wake of the pandemic. This is a key strength of our pharma portfolio, and we plan to continue launching more molecules with differentiated presentations or complex formulations in the months to come. During the quarter, advanced surgery performance in the U.S. was affected by lower surgical volumes, which remain depressed versus pre-pandemic rates. Procedure volumes were unfavorable to our prior expectations as hospitals delayed elective procedures in light of the delta variant. This was more than offset by growth in the international markets, which could slowly recover from the effects of the pandemic. Growth in Clinical Nutrition reflected the benefit of our new product launches particularly in international markets. Acute Therapies continues to perform very well. A year-over-year decline in U.S. sales reflects a difficult comparison in the face of last year's surge in demand for continuous renal replacement or CRRT products.Again, this was offset by international growth as an outcome of the pandemic, we now have many more CRRT devices in the food as well as heightened engagement immunization on the part of clinicians creating a platform for sustained momentum. Growth in Renal Care was driven by our home-based peritoneal dialysis or PD products globally. As I have mentioned on past calls, demand does continue to be dampened amid the pandemic due to higher mortality rates for patients with kidney disease and a slowdown in new patient diagnosis. We expect the ESRD market to gradually recover to pre-COVID growth rates over the next one to two years. Our Renal Care team's global safer at home campaign is dedicated to helping clinicians, patients and other stakeholders learn more about the benefits of home-based PD care, especially in the context of today's pandemic conditions. From an ESG perspective, I'm pleased to highlight a new partnership between UNICEF USA and the Baxter International Foundation to improve access to safe water in La Guajira, Colombia, one of the country's most water-challenged regions. A $1.5 million foundation grant is helping fund the multifaceted 3-year program. This quarter, we also honored to be included on Forbes latest list of the World's Best Employers and America's Best Employers for women. In addition, we are recognized as a leading organization on Seramount's 2021 inclusion index. Looking forward, we continue to navigate with some uncertainty on the horizon. The overall trajectory of pandemic recovery appears more clear but the new geographic contours remain inconsistent. New variants may take an unknown toll on our business and our employees, and we will continue to contend with the effect of macroeconomic issues. Related to this last point, we are not immune to inflationary pressures and the rising cost of raw materials, commodities, components, fuel and ongoing supply chain disruptions. While we are actively working to address these rapidly rising costs, we recognize these factors may continue to impact our operations into 2022. Amid these challenges, we are on pace very strong close to the year. This translates into momentum as we get set to execute on the vast potential of our proposed Hillrom acquisition and launch the next phase of our transformation journey, fueled by the commitment of our outstanding global team. Now I will pass it to Jay for a closer look at our financial results and outlook.

 



James K. Saccaro -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Joe, and good morning, everyone. As Joe mentioned, we're pleased with our strong third quarter performance. Third quarter 2021 global sales of $3.2 billion, advanced 9% on a reported basis, 7% on a constant currency basis and 6% operationally. Sales growth this quarter reflects the benefit from revenues associated with the manufacturing of COVID vaccines, strength in medication delivery and OUS sales of Caelyx and Doxil, which totaled approximately $32 million in the quarter. On the bottom line, adjusted earnings increased 23% and to $1.02 per share, exceeding our guidance range, driven by a favorable product mix, primarily from better-than-expected sales of Acute Therapies and BioPharma Solutions as well as disciplined operational execution. Now I'll walk through performance by our regional segments in key product categories. Starting with our regional segments. Sales in the Americas increased 7% on both the constant currency and operational basis. Sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa grew 7% on a constant currency basis and 3% operationally. And sales in our Asia Pacific region advanced 8% on both a constant currency and operational basis. Moving on to performance by key product category. Note that for this [Indecipherable] constant currency is equal to operational sales growth for all global businesses, except for the Pharmaceuticals business, for which we will provide both constant currency and operational growth, adjusting for the acquisition of rights in select territories outside the U.S. for Caelyx and Doxil. Global sales for Renal Care were $981 million increased 1% on a constant currency basis. Performance in the quarter was driven by global growth in our PD business where we experienced year-over-year improvement in global patient volumes despite the negative impact on volumes resulting from the pandemic, including increased mortality rates in ESRD patients, delays in new patient diagnoses and marketwide staffing shortages. PD growth was partially offset by declining international sales in our In-center HD business and Renal Care clinics. We continue to monitor the impact of excess mortality among ESRD patients and delays in new patient diagnosis resulting from the pandemic and expect the market to return to pre-COVID growth rates over the next 12 to 24 months. Medication delivery of $747 million increased 11% on a constant currency basis. Strong global growth in this business reflects continued recovery in the pace of hospital admissions as well as increased demand for large volume infusion pumps, IV solutions and small volume parenterals. During the quarter, we estimate that U.S. hospital admissions were down approximately 4% compared to pre-COVID levels, a significant improvement from the same quarter last year, which saw U.S. admissions down approximately [Technical Issues] versus pre-Covid levels.In addition, during the quarter we executed and began delivering infusion pumps under a contract with a large health system in the U.S. which resulted in our highest number of quarterly pump placements in over five years. Pharmaceutical sales of $589 million advanced 7% on a constant currency basis and 1% operationally. Performance in the quarter was driven by demand for our international pharmacy compounding business and the contribution from OUS sales of Caelyx and Doxil. Growth in the quarter also benefited from increase sales of the Dexmed and our portfolio of premixes as hospitals continue combating the COVID-19 pandemic and look toward premix formulations and workflow efficiencies. This growth was partially offset by declines in our U.S. business related to lower surgical procedures and a government order of approximately $20 million in Q3 2020. Moving to Clinical Nutrition, total sales were $244 million, increasing 3% on a constant currency basis. Performance in the quarter was driven by the benefit of new product launches within our broad multichamber product offering. Sales in Advanced Surgery were $249 million, increasing 5% on a constant currency basis. Within the quarter, we saw a strong growth from our international business and estimate surgical procedures improved both sequentially and on a year-over-year basis in many international markets. This growth was partially offset by performance in the U.S. with surgical procedures estimated at 95% of pre-COVID levels, a sequential and year-over-year decline in surgical procedure volumes due to the impact of the Delta variant and staff shortages. This was below our previous procedures returning to pre-COVID levels during the third quarter. Sales in our Acute Therapies business were $185 million, advancing 3% on a constant currency basis and were favorable to our expectations. Performance in the quarter continued to benefit from elevated demand for CRRT, particularly given the rise in COVID cases associated with the Delta variant. BioPharma Solutions sales in the quarter were $206 million, representing growth of 45% on a constant currency basis, reflecting incremental sales related to the manufacturing of COVID vaccines, which totaled more than $50 million in the quarter. Moving through the rest of the P&L. Our adjusted gross margin of 44% increased by 140 basis points over the prior year, reflecting a favorable product mix and operational improvements in manufacturing. Adjusted SG&A of $640 million increased 11% as compared to the prior year period and was favorable to expectations, driven by disciplined expense management, which more than offset increased supply chain and logistics expenses recognized in the quarter. Adjusted R&D spending in the quarter of $129 million increased 6% versus the prior year period. Both adjusted SG&A and R&D spending reflect a somewhat more normalized level of spend as certain expense categories were depressed last year as a result of the pandemic, particularly those related to employee bonus accruals. This improvement in gross margin, coupled with the continued opex management resulted in an adjusted operating margin in the quarter of 20.2%, an increase of 100 basis points versus the prior year. Adjusted net interest expense totaled $32 million in the quarter and other nonoperating expense was $12 million in the quarter. The adjusted tax rate in the quarter was 14.8%, a decrease over the prior year, driven primarily by a favorable change in earnings mix. And as previously mentioned, adjusted earnings of $1.02 per diluted share exceeded our guidance of $0.93 to $0.95 per diluted share. With respect to cash flow, year-to-date, we've generated $1.5 billion in operating cash flow. Free cash flow totaled over $1 billion and represented growth of nearly 50% as compared to the prior year period. I would like to take a moment to reiterate our excitement around our recent announcement to acquire Hillrom. We believe the strategic rationale and underlying financials of the combination are compelling and provide us with a meaningful opportunity for value creation.Our integration teams are hard at work and we look forward to finalizing this combination by early 2022. In the meantime, we continue to follow a strategic approach to capital allocation that is founded on accelerating growth, driving innovation and returning value to our shareholders. Let me conclude my comments by discussing our outlook for full year 2021. For full year 2021, we expect global sales growth of 7% to 8% on a reported basis, 5% to 6% on a constant currency basis and 4% to 5% on an operational basis. This assumes a benefit of approximately 100 basis points to both reported and constant currency revenue growth for the acquisition of Caelyx/Doxil and over 200 basis points of positive top line impact from foreign exchange on reported growth. Our expectation remains that on a full year basis, hospital admission rates in the U.S. will remain below pre-COVID levels exiting the year down low single digits. Although surgical procedure data in the U.S. declined sequentially Q2 to Q3, our current expectation is that U.S. surgical procedures will improve sequentially and return to pre-COVID levels in the fourth quarter. We are continuing to monitor this assumption in light of potential impacts from COVID outbreaks and hospital staffing shortages. Moving down the P&L, we now expect adjusted operating margin to expand more than 60 basis points. For the year, we now expect an adjusted tax rate of 16.5% to 17% and a full year diluted average share count of approximately 510 million shares. Based on these factors, we now expect 2021 adjusted earnings, excluding special items, of $3.58 to $3.62 per diluted share. For the fourth quarter of 2021, we expect global sales growth of 3% to 4% on a reported basis, 4% to 5% on a constant currency basis and 3% to 4% on an operational basis. And we expect adjusted earnings, excluding special items, of $1 to $1.04 per diluted share. With that, we can now open the call up to Q&A.

 




OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Baxter International Second Quarter 2021 in Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Clare Trachtman, Vice President of Investor Relations at Baxter International. Ms. Trachtman, you may begin.Clare Trachtman -- Vice President of Investor RelationsGood morning, and welcome to our second quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Joining me today are Joe Almeida, Baxter's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Jay Saccaro, Baxter's Chief Financial Officer. On the call this morning, we will be discussing Baxter's second quarter 2021 financial results and full year 2021 financial Outlook. With that, let me start our prepared remarks by reminding everyone that this presentation, including comments regarding our financial outlook for the third quarter and full year 2021, new product development, business development and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, and of course, our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more detail concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. In addition, on today's call, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.Now I'd like to turn the call over to Joe. Joe?Jose E. Almeida -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Clare. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. I will begin with a review of Baxter's second quarter results, and also share a few words about our upcoming investor conference. Jay will then provide a deeper dive on our financial performance and outlook. And we will wrap up with Q-and-A. Baxter delivered second quarter sales growth of 14% as reported, 9% on a constant currency basis and 8% operationally. Growth was driven primarily by the ongoing global recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, resulting in favorable performance comparisons for a number of our businesses versus the prior year, as the pandemic affect the patient treatment dynamics and demand mix in the prior year. On the bottom line, second quarter adjusted earnings per share were $0.80, up 25% year-over-year and exceeding our original guidance. All three of our geographic segments contributed to the positive quarterly performance. The Americas and EMEA achieved high single-digit growth and APAC achieved a low double-digit growth, all at constant currency rates. While we are clearly experiencing recovery from the pandemic across all three of our geographies, the situation on the ground varies considerably by market. As always, we salute the healthcare workers, who continue to face enormous challenges every day on the front lines of care. I also want to express my personal gratitude to all the Baxter employees, who tirelessly support these clinicians and caregivers while helping to ensure we address the needs of patients across our vast life-sustaining portfolio.Turning to our performance by business, five of our seven product categories achieved growth on a constant currency basis. Performance was led by BioPharma Solutions and Advanced Surgery, which delivered 49% and 48% constant currency growth, respectively. Growth in BPS was filled by contracts to assist in the manufacture of COVID-19 vaccines. Advanced Surgery growth reflects a favorable comparison to the prior year spurred by improving surgical volumes as pandemic recovery advances globally. As you saw in this morning's press release, we are building on our momentum in Advanced Surgery with the acquisition of PerClot Polysaccharide Hemostatic System. PerClot marks our entry into the global hemostatic powder segment, which will allow us to serve surgeons and their patients with an even broader range of options to control into operative bleeding across active and passive solutions. Our Medication Delivery business grew 12% at constant currency rates, also benefiting from a favorable comparison driven by improving rates of admissions at hospitals as compared to the prior year.Looking ahead, Medication Delivery is continuing to position for the U.S. launch of our NOVUM IQ infusion platform including those IQ safety software in our IQ enterprise digital connectivity suite. Following up on our recent FDA resubmission, we are now in the process of responding to an additional information request from the agency. We continue to expect to launch NOVUM IQ in the U.S. before the end of the year. Our Clinical Nutrition category advanced single digits at constant currency rates, reflecting ongoing strength in the U.S. Pharmaceuticals also grew at single digits constant currency. Adjusting for the recent Caelyx and Doxil acquisition, Pharmaceuticals was flat year-over-year. Although we expect competitive pressures to continue in this marketplace, we remain focused on launching molecules with differentiated presentations and/or complex formulations. We have several projected launches of new generic injectables in the coming years that will help to fuel growth in this business and mitigate some of the competitive pressures we are experiencing. Performance in Renal Care was comparable to the prior year at constant rates with growth in the U.S., offset by a decline across international markets.On a global basis, the market continues to be dampened by the impact of the pandemic, which has contributed to a higher mortality rate for patients with kidney disease combined with a slowing of new patient diagnosis. As we said last quarter, we expect the recovery of this market to continue, returning to its pre-COVID dynamics over the next one to two years. In this quarter, we saw returned positive year-over-year PD patient growth globally including mid-single-digit PD patient growth in the U.S. The pandemic has highlighted the vital importance of the home dialysis therapy option. And as a leader in recognized innovator in this space, it has never been more urgent to support education, awareness and access. Our global safer at home campaign, which has been underway for more than a year, is dedicated to helping clinicians, patients and other stakeholders learn more about the benefits of home care, particularly amid pandemic conditions. Lastly, performance in Acute Therapies declined mid-single digits at constant currency rates year-over-year. This decline was expected given the extremely challenging comparison following last year's historic surge in demand for continuous renal replacement therapy in light of the pandemic. We remain excited by the prospects for the advanced treatment options in the CRRT market. In fact, Q2 marked the launch of PrisMax to the latest version of our nex-gen platform for CRRT and organ support with embedded TrueView digital health technology.From an ESG perspective, earlier this month, we announced our 2030 corporate responsibility commitment, which will help to drive Baxter's environmental, social, governance efforts over the next decade and beyond. This work is integral to how we advance our mission to save and sustain lives and serve all of our stakeholders from patients and clinicians to our communities and investors. Our 2030 commitment is built around the three overarching objectives, empower our patients, protect our planet and champion our people and communities. Full details can be found in our 2020 corporate responsibility report now posted on baxter.com. Briefly looking ahead, we continue operating in an environment of some uncertainty. We fully anticipate broader trend of pandemic recovery to sustain, but geographic disparities and emerging variants could slow and undermine the pace. All storages like our healthcare peers and countless other companies, Baxter is subject to the impact of inflation in the rising cost of freight, fuel and other raw materials and commodities. We will continue to look for opportunities to offset the impact from these incremental expenses.As I wrap up, I want to highlight that our 2021 investor conference will be held on Monday, September 20 in Deerfield, Illinois. At the conference, we plan to focus on our key strategic objectives to enhance growth and drive innovation. In addition, as a critical part of our ongoing business transformation, Jim Borzi, Senior Vice President and Chief Supply Chain Officer, will outline the next phase of our manufacturing supply chain journey, which is expected to enhance our operational effectiveness and drive margin improvement.Now I'll pass it to Jay, who will share a closer look at our results and our outlook for the balance of the year.James Saccaro -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Joe, and good morning, everyone. As Joe mentioned, we're pleased with our strong second quarter performance. Second quarter 2021 global sales of $3.1 billion advanced 14% on a reported basis, 9% on a constant currency basis and 8% on an operational basis. Sales growth this quarter reflects the ongoing recovery in hospital and surgical volumes, along with the benefit from COVID vaccines. We estimate these factors contributed just over 450 basis points of sales growth in the quarter. OUS sales of Caelyx/Doxil totaled approximately $30 million in the quarter. On the bottom line, adjusted earnings increased 25% to $0.80 per share, exceeding our guidance range driven by disciplined operational execution, and a lower-than-expected tax rate. Now I'll walk through performance by our regional segments and key product categories. Starting with our three regional segments. Sales in the Americas increased 8% on both a constant currency and operational basis. Sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa grew 8% on a constant currency basis and 5% on an operational basis, and sales in our Asia Pac region advanced 10% on a constant currency basis and 9% operationally.Moving on to performance by key product category. Note that for this quarter, constant currency growth is equal to operational sales growth for all global businesses, except for our Pharmaceuticals business, for which we will provide both constant currency and operational growth adjusted for the acquisition of rights in select territories outside the U.S. of the Caelyx and Doxil. Global sales for Renal care were $964 million, were flat on a constant currency basis. Performance in the quarter was driven by our PD business, where we observed both the sequential and year-over-year improvement in global patient volumes. This was partially offset by declining international sales of in-center HD dialyzers, reflecting the impact from the pandemic as well as competitive dynamics. We continue to monitor the impact of excess mortality among ESRD patients and delays in new patient diagnoses resulting from the pandemic. Our expectation remains that PD patient volumes will continue to ramp over the course of the year, although the pace may vary by market. In particular, we are monitoring COVID resurgences in Asia Pac and parts of the Europe. Sales in Medication Delivery of $697 million, increased 12% on a constant currency basis. Strong global growth in this business reflects the recovery in the pace of hospital admissions in many markets following the height of the pandemic last year. We estimate that in the second quarter, the rate of U.S. hospital admissions was down approximately 7% as compared to pre-COVID levels, a market improvement from the second quarter of 2020, which saw U.S. admissions down approximately 20%. Pharmaceutical sales of $546 million, advanced 5% on a constant currency basis and were flat to prior year on an operational basis. Performance in the quarter benefited from the recovery in surgical procedures and hospital admissions, demand for our international pharmacy compounding business and the contribution from OUS sales of Caelyx/Doxil. This growth was partially offset by declines in our U.S. generic injectables portfolio, which faced a headwind from prior year sales of select injectable drugs used to treat critical COVID-19 patients as well as increased competitive activity for certain molecules.Moving to Clinical Nutrition. Total sales were $237 million, increasing 3% on a constant currency basis. Performance in the quarter was driven primarily by growth in the U.S., partially offset by lower international sales of vitamins resulting from supply constraints. Sales in Advanced Surgery were $256 million, increasing 48% on a constant currency basis. Within the quarter, we estimate surgical procedures were at or slightly above pre-COVID levels, contributing to strength in the quarter. Sales in our Acute Therapies business were $188 million, declining 4% on a constant currency basis, reflecting the challenging year-over-year comparison due to surge in product demand this time last year related to the COVID pandemic. As Joe mentioned, we anticipate that COVID-related demand for CRRT will moderate this year, but will improve over time through the launch of new products and increased awareness of this therapy. BioPharma Solutions sales in the quarter were $183 million, representing growth of 49% on a constant currency basis, reflecting incremental sales related to the manufacturing of COVID-19 vaccines.Moving through the rest of the P-and-L. Our adjusted gross margin of 42.6% increased by 100 basis points over the prior year, reflecting operational improvements in manufacturing and a favorable product mix as the impact from COVID receives. Adjusted SG-and-A of $649 million increased 12% on a reported basis, reflecting the impact from foreign exchange, the improvement in sales and resulting increase in commissions and increased promotional spend in support of new product launches. Adjusted R-and-D spending in the quarter of $139 million increased 18% on a reported basis driven by the impact of foreign exchange and investments in our new product pipeline. Both adjusted SG-and-A and R-and-D spending reflect a somewhat more normalized level of spend, as certain expense categories were depressed last year as a result of the pandemic, particularly those related to employee bonus accruals. Adjusted operating margin in the quarter was 17.2%, an increase of 120 basis points versus the prior year. Net interest expense totaled $34 million in the quarter, and other nonoperating income contributed $2 million in the quarter. The adjusted tax rate in the quarter was 17.8%, an increase over the prior year driven by lower stock-based compensation award deductions as compared to the prior year period. The tax rate was favorable to our expectations driven by a favorable change in earnings mix.And as previously mentioned, adjusted earnings of $0.80 per diluted share exceeded our guidance of $0.72 to $0.75 per share. Within the second quarter, we repurchased approximately $300 million or 3.7 million shares of common stock. Year-to-date, we have repurchased $600 million or 7.3 million shares of common stock, which has been partially offset by option-related dilution. On a net basis, our outstanding share count has declined by approximately five million shares through the second quarter. In addition, during the second quarter, we announced a 14% increase in the company's quarterly cash dividend rate. The strength of our financial position has fueled our ability to increase our quarterly dividend rate on an annual basis for the sixth consecutive year. We continue to follow a strategic approach to capital allocation that is balance between inorganic and organic initiatives with the objective of accelerating growth and expanding margins, driving innovation and returning value to our shareholders. With respect to cash flow in the first half of 2021, we've generated $854 million of operating cash flow and $525 million in free cash flow.Let me conclude my comments by discussing our outlook for the third quarter and full year 2021. For full year 2021, we expect global sales growth of approximately 8% on a reported basis, 5% to 6% on a constant currency basis and 4% to 5% on an operational basis. This assumes a benefit of approximately 100 basis points to both reported and constant currency revenue growth for the acquisition of Caelyx/Doxil as well as approximately 250 basis points of positive top line impact from foreign exchange on reported growth. Our expectation remains that on a full year basis, hospital admission rates will stay below pre-COVID levels with rates improving throughout the year, and exiting down low single digits. Based on surgical procedure data in the U.S. to date, we now expect surgical procedures will continue to be a 100% of pre-COVID levels for the remainder of the year. Moving down the P-and-L. We continue to expect adjusted operating margin to expand between 40 to 60 basis points. For the year, we expect an adjusted tax rate of approximately 17.5% and a full year diluted average share count of approximately 510 million shares. Based on these factors, we now expect 2021 adjusted earnings, excluding special items of $3.49 to $3.55 per diluted share. Specific to the third quarter of 2021, we expect global sales growth of approximately 9% on a reported basis, approximately 7% on a constant currency basis and approximately 6% on an operational basis. And we expect adjusted earnings, excluding special items of $0.93 to $0.95 per diluted share.With that, we can now open the call up for Q-and-A.