  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Apple Q3 FY 2021 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Tejas Gala, director, investor relations, and corporate finance. Please go ahead.Tejas Gala -- Director, Investor Relations, and Corporate Finance Thank you. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us. Speaking first today is Apple's CEO, Tim Cook; and he'll be followed by CFO Luca Maestri. After that, we'll open the call to questions from analysts. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expenses, taxes, capital allocation, and future business outlook, including the potential impact of COVID-19 on the company's business and results of operations. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results or trends to differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the associated press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.I'd like to now turn the call over to Tim for introductory remarks. Tim Cook -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Tejas. Good afternoon, everyone. Today, Apple is reporting a very strong quarter with double-digit revenue growth across our product and services categories and in every geographic segment. We set a new June quarter revenue record of $81.4 billion, up 36% from last year, and the vast majority of markets we track grew double digits, with especially strong growth in emerging markets, including India, Latin America, and Vietnam. Total retail sales also set a June quarter record, and almost all of our retail stores have now opened their doors. This quarter saw a growing sense of optimism from consumers in the United States and around the world, driving renewed hope for a better future and for all that innovation can make possible. But as the last 18 months have demonstrated many times before, progress made is not progress guaranteed. An uneven recovery to the pandemic and a Delta variant surging in many countries around the world have shown us once again that the road to recovery will be a winding one. In the midst of that enduring adversity, we are especially humbled that our technology has continued to play a key role in keeping our customers connected. Just last month, it was great to be back with our teams and customers for the opening of our newest retail store in Los Angeles, Apple Tower Theatre. It was a hopeful reminder of the energy and sense of community shared spaces bring and how appreciative we all are now of the simple privilege of talking to one another face to face. As we look forward to more in-person interactions in the future, we're doubling down on innovation and doing all we can to help chart a course to a healthier and more equitable world. I'll have more to say about our work in those areas a bit later on. But first, let's turn to our product and services categories. For iPhone, this quarter saw very strong double-digit growth in each geographic segment, and we continue to be heartened by our customers' response to the iPhone 12 lineup. We're only in the early innings of 5G, but already its incredible performance and speed have made a significant impact on how people can get the most out of our technology. Customers love iPhone 12 for its superfast 5G speeds, A14 bionic chip, and Adobe vision camera never seen before in a phone. Users continue to rely on iPad and Mac to work, learn, create and connect. iPad had its highest June quarter in nearly a decade, while Mac set an all-time June quarter record. We've seen a great response to the new iMac and iPad Pro, both powered by the M1 chip's exceptional speed and power-efficient performance. The iMac's remarkable thin design and vibrant colors have made it a favorite for users everywhere. And the iPad continues to be an incredibly versatile tool in our users' toolbox, inspiring creativity and connection and keeping us entertained and productive in equal measure. It was another very strong quarter for wearables, home, and accessories, which set a new June quarter record while helping people find more ways to stay entertained, healthy, and connected at home and on the go. Apple Watch remains a go-to choice for users to stay on top of their health and reach their fitness goals. And our newest accessory AirTag began shipping to an enthusiastic response from customers, making the Find My network more useful than ever while protecting user privacy. Turning to services, which set a new all-time revenue record as we continue to roll out innovative new features and programming. We're proud to be the recipients of 35 Emmy nominations this year, which speaks to the quality of our programming and an enthusiastic reception from customers and critics alike. Apple TV+ users are loving series like Mythic Quest and anticipating groundbreaking films like CODA, which premieres next month. And of course, Ted Lasso kicked off season two just last week and continues to win over viewers with its heartwarming message about the power of community, compassion, and hope. We also introduced Apple Podcasts subscriptions, a global marketplace for users to discover exclusive content and support their favorite creators. And we launched spatial audio for Apple Music, a cinematic listening experience that promises to change how music fans listen and musicians create even more immersive, layered, and beautiful songs. Last month, we shared many exciting new features at WWDC, but more powerful than any of them was the incredible showing of developers from all walks of life and around the world. The new tools we announced will help developers harness cutting-edge technologies like augmented reality, reach new users, and customize their experience on the App Store, are learned to update or invent an app with Swift, Apple's powerful and intuitive programming language. Today's investments in education and coding translate to tomorrow's small businesses and groundbreaking new apps, the next app -- the next act of an app economy already creating jobs and opportunities around the world. In June, a new study by the Analysis Group found that it was another record year for App Store developers whose combined billings and sales increased by 24% to $643 billion in 2020. The app economy continues to be an incredible engine of prosperity and opportunity fueled by the ceaseless striving of developers to make apps that enrich people's lives. Much like the developer community, we are diehard optimists about technology's potential to help people live happier, healthier, and more fulfilled lives, goals that shine through with powerful new updates coming to iOS, iPadOS, macOS, and watchOS this fall. That begins with innovative new features that help users stay connected with one another, like SharePlay and spatial audio for FaceTime or disconnect when they need a break, like Focus, which limits distracting notifications when you're winding down for bed or concentrating at work. And new productivity features make iPad an even more useful tool for multitasking, helping users navigate across apps, split their screen, or use Quick Note to capture a thought the moment inspiration strives. In the health space, our new health sharing feature will make it easier than ever to securely share your health data with loved ones. That includes new capabilities like walking steadiness, which uses sensors to assess user stability doing everyday task and recommends exercises to improve stability and avoid a fall. In the belief that privacy is a fundamental human right, we shared new features in iOS 15 that continue to drive our progress forward from mail privacy protection, which stops invisible pixels and an email from tracking your mail activity, to app privacy report, which helps users check on the apps they've granted permission to use their personal data. We also introduced some incredible next-generation technologies coming to the accessibility space, from assistive touch, which helps people with limb differences navigate Apple Watch to new voiceover capabilities to help blind and low-vision users. Accessibility remains a bedrock principle for us in the simple belief that the best technology for the world should be the best technology for everyone. But the responsibility to be a force for good in the lives of others extends beyond the technology we make, so to the teachers and students shaping our future. This quarter, as part of our Racial Equity and Justice Initiative, we awarded innovation grants to engineering schools at four historically black colleges and universities to expand their coursework, scholarships, and internship opportunities in hardware engineering and silicon chip design. We see education as a great equalizing force, and we're more dedicated than ever to supporting the educators, advocates, and students lighting the path and leading the way. That includes the 350 Swift Student Challenge winners we recognized at this year's WWDC. If you ever need a dose of hope or inspiration, I can't say enough about our student scholarship winners whose apt bring so much good into the world, from teaching other young people to code to helping volunteers deliver groceries to people at high risk of COVID-19. Young people's innovations remind us that our collective future is bound up in the next generation's passion for solving global challenges and of the responsibility we have to join them in building a better world. Turning to our own backyard, we're continuing to press forward in our efforts to help bring more affordable housing to the Bay Area and across California. This month, we shared that we've contributed more than $1 billion to help first-time homeowners and construct thousands of new affordable housing units across the state. And we're continuing to stay focused on supporting the global response to the pandemic and delivering the best products and services for people. Our greatest source of inspiration isn't technology itself but how people use it in their own lives in ways great and small: to write a novel or to read one; to care for an ailing patient or see a doctor virtually; to track their heart rate on a jog or to train for the Olympics. Every day, I'm grateful for the dedication of our teams to the simple mission of creating technology that improves people's lives. And I want to thank everyone at Apple for the purpose and passion they bring to that mission. With that, I'll hand it over to Luca for a deeper dive on our performance this quarter.Luca Maestri -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. We are very pleased to report record June quarter financial results, which reflect the importance of our products and services in our customers' lives and our strong underlying operating performance. Our revenue reached a June quarter record of $81.4 billion, an increase of nearly $22 billion or 36% from a year ago. We grew double digits in each of our product categories with an all-time record for Services and June quarter records for iPhone, Mac and wearables, home, and accessories. We also set new June quarter records in every geographic segment with very strong double-digit growth in each one of them. Products revenue was a June quarter record of $63.9 billion, up 37% over a year ago. This level of sales performance, combined with the unmatched loyalty of our customers, drove our installed base of active devices to a new all-time record. Our services set an all-time revenue record of $17.5 billion, up 33% over a year ago with June quarter records in each geographic segment. Company gross margin was 43.3%, up 80 basis points from last quarter, driven by cost savings and a higher mix of services, partially offset by seasonal loss of leverage. Products gross margin was 36%, down 10 basis points sequentially, as seasonal loss of leverage was almost entirely offset by cost savings. Services gross margin was 69.8%, down 30 basis points sequentially, mainly due to a different mix. Net income of $21.7 billion, diluted earnings per share of $1.30, and operating cash flow of $21.1 billion were all June quarter records by a wide margin. Let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue set a June quarter record of $39.6 billion, growing 50% year over year and exceeding our own expectations as the iPhone 12 family continues to be in very high demand. Performance was consistently strong across the world, and we grew very strong double digits in each geographic segment, setting June quarter records in most markets we track. Our active installed base of iPhones reached a new all-time high thanks to the exceptional loyalty of our customer base and the strength of our ecosystem. In the U.S., the latest survey of consumers from 451 Research indicates iPhone customer satisfaction of 97% for the iPhone 12 family. Turning to services. As I mentioned, we reached an all-time revenue record of $17.5 billion with all-time records for cloud services, music, video, advertising, and payment services and June quarter records for the App Store and AppleCare. Our newer service offerings, Apple TV+, Apple Arcade, Apple News+, Apple Card, Apple Fitness+ as well as the Apple One bundle, continue to scale across users, content, and features and are contributing to overall services growth. The key drivers for our services business all continue to move in the right direction. First, our installed base of devices reached an all-time high across each geographic segment. Second, the number of both transacting and paid accounts on our digital content stores reached a new all-time high during the June quarter in each geographic segment, and paid accounts increased double digits. Third, paid subscriptions continue to show strong growth. We now have more than 700 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, which is up more than 150 million from last year and nearly four times the number of paid subscriptions we had only four years ago. And finally, we're adding new services that we think our customers will love while also continuing to improve the breadth and quality of our current services offerings. For example, during WWDC in June, we previewed our new iCloud+ and Apple Wallet features, which we believe will create a more secure and differentiated customer experience. Wearables, home, and accessories grew 36% year over year to $8.8 billion, setting new June quarter revenue records in every geographic segment. We continue to improve and expand our product offerings in this category. This quarter, we began shipping our new Apple TV 4K with a redesigned Siri Remote and our brand-new AirTags, and the customer response to both products has been very strong. In addition to its outstanding sales performance globally, Apple Watch continues to extend its reach, with nearly 75% of the customers purchasing Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product. For Mac, despite supply constraints, we set a June quarter record of $8.2 billion, up 16% over last year, with June quarter revenue records in most markets we track around the world. It is remarkable that the last four quarters for Mac have been its best four quarters ever. This exceptional level of sales success has been driven by the very enthusiastic customer response to our new Macs powered by the M1 chip, which we most recently brought to our newly redesigned iMac. iPad performance was also strong with revenue of $7.4 billion, up 12% in spite of significant supply constraints. During the quarter, we also starting shipping our new iPad Pro powered by the M1 chip, and customer response has been outstanding. Both iPad and Mac have taken computing to the next level, and when you combine their performance over the last 12 months, they are now the size of a Fortune 50 business thanks to the best product lineups we've ever had, very high levels of customer satisfaction and a loyal growing installed base. In fact, around half of the customers purchasing Mac and iPad during the quarter were new to that product, and in most recent surveys of U.S. consumers from 451 Research, customer satisfaction was 92% for Mac and 95% for iPad. In enterprise, our customers are excited about the superior performance, battery life, and security that the new M1 Macs bring. MassMutual, for example, is offering M1 MacBook Pro to all of its employees and equipping all conference rooms with M1 Mac Minis in preparation for return to work. And with its incredible performance and affordable entry price, the MacBook Air with M1 is gaining rapid adoption among many leading enterprise organizations. Italgas, Italy's largest natural gas company, which will soon be using its extensive network to distribute renewable gases, is replacing every employee's Windows laptop with the new MacBook Air powered by Apple's M1 chip to bring the latest technology to its workforce. And Grab, Southeast Asia's leading super app that provides transportation, food delivery and digital payment services, is adding M1 MacBook Air to its companywide M1 Mac deployment. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $194 billion in cash plus marketable securities. We retired $3 billion of term debt and increased commercial paper by $3 billion, leaving us with total debt of $122 billion. As a result, net cash was $72 billion at the end of the quarter. As our business continued to perform at a very high level, we are also able to return $29 billion to shareholders during the June quarter. This included $3.8 billion in dividends and equivalents and $17.5 billion through open market repurchases of 136 million Apple shares. We also began a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program in May, resulting in the initial delivery and retirement of 32 million shares. As we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to at the beginning of the call. Given the continued uncertainty around the world in the near term, we are not providing revenue guidance, but we are sharing some directional insights assuming that the COVID-related impacts to our business do not worsen from what we are projecting today for the current quarter. We expect very strong double-digit year-over-year revenue growth during the September quarter. We expect revenue growth to be lower than our June quarter year-over-year growth of 36% for three reasons. First, we expect the foreign exchange impact on our year-over-year growth rate to be three points less favorable than it was during the June quarter. Second, we expect our services growth rate to return to a more typical level. The growth rate during the June quarter benefited from a favorable compare as certain services were significantly impacted by the COVID lockdowns a year ago. And third, we expect supply constraints during the September quarter to be greater than what we experienced during the June quarter. The constraints will primarily impact iPhone and iPad. We expect gross margin to be between 41.5% and 42.5%. We expect opex to be between $11.3 billion and $11.5 billion. We expect OI&E to be around zero, excluding any potential impact from the mark-to-market of minority investments and our tax rate to be around 16%. Finally, today, our board of directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.22 per share of common stock payable on August 12, 2021, to shareholders of record as of August 9, 2021. With that, let's open the call to questions.Tejas Gala -- Director, Investor Relations, and Corporate Finance Thank you, Luca. [Operator instructions] Operator, may we have the first question, please? 