  OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the EPAM Systems first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your speaker host, David Straube, head of investor relations. Please go ahead.David Straube -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. By now, you should have received your copy of the earnings release for the company's first quarter 2022 results. If you have not, a copy is available on epam.com in the investors section. With me on today's call are Arkadiy Dobkin, CEO and president, and Jason Peterson, chief financial officer. I'd like to remind those listening that some of the comments made on today's call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in the company's earnings release and SEC filings. Additionally, all references to reported results that are non-GAAP measures have been reconciled to comparable GAAP measures and are available in our quarterly earnings material located in the Investors section of our website. With that said, I'll now turn the call over to Ark.Arkadiy Dobkin -- Chief Executive Officer and President Thank you, David. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. During our previous earnings call, I finished my remarks with our assurance that the level of maturity that the EPAM has reached over the last few years, along with our ability to operate and manage our performance during the difficult times in 2014 and '15 in Ukraine and 2020 and '21 in Belarus, allows us to say that we were well prepared to address the potential challenges of 2022 by leveraging our broad global reach and deep regional insight and by applying our strong engineering DNA, and most importantly, our never-ending entrepreneurial spirit to continue making the future real for our clients, our employees, and our global and local communities while keeping everybody as safe as possible.

 



 We're [Inaudible]. We didn't expect the war. By any measurement, the quarter has been unlike any other quarter in our history. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has changed the world and impacted tens of millions of people, including tens of thousands of our employees, their families, friends, neighbors in Ukraine and around the world. What we thought was unimaginable when we reported our Q4 earnings on February 17, all changed a week later. Now let me repeat a simple statement. EPAM as a company fully stands with Ukraine. During the last months since the beginning of the war that was started by the Russian government, our absolute top priority has been and continues to be the safety and well-being of our employees and their families in Ukraine. Today, our employees in the region and around the globe continue to support each other, donating time and resources to help their colleagues in Ukraine. Additionally, the company has provided significant financial and logistical support to help move our Ukrainian employees and their families to safe areas inside and outside of Ukraine. As we have previously announced, EPAM has committed USD 100 million in assistance to help with the broad range of needs for our people and their close ones. Along this financial assistance, there has been an outpouring of support from a great number of clients and partners responding with gestures and different type of aids. Thinking more broadly about the people of Ukraine, we established the EPAM Ukraine Assistance Fund to support charitable aid organizations that provide direct relief to those in vulnerable situation across Ukraine. This fund is a separate from and in addition to the $100 million humanitarian commitment previously mentioned. And despite the very challenging and sometimes unimaginable conditions on the ground in Ukraine, our Ukrainian colleagues have been resilient and dedicated to their work and customer responsibilities, continuing to produce and to deliver results. EPAM's management team, together with our clients, are extremely impressed and grateful for those incredible efforts and we see today increased interest from our customers to continue directing work to Ukraine.

 



 I personally want to thank each and everyone on our Ukrainian team. However, where we get it wrong, we were also somehow right about our level of readiness to address unknown. Because today, despite the broad and disruptive nature of the events unfolding daily, we find ourselves to be better prepared than we imagined just three months ago. Our investments in hardening our operational and logistical platforms, teams and processes have enabled us to respond quickly and establish a framework for continued phased recovery procedures. Let us try to illustrate it in a bit more structured way by presenting several stages of our current journey or at least the way we are currently thinking about things. First, in addition to preserving the safety of our Ukrainian EPAMers and their families while helping to move many thousands of people from east to west inside the country and abroad, our initial focus during the last few months has been on maintaining our customer relationships and continue to deliver important initiatives despite the war and interrelated geopolitical challenges. Those efforts we define for ourselves as a Phase 1, a period of safety and stabilization of our operations, with very little attention to anything beyond that. Under the current conditions, we believe this phase is largely completed and we will call it out as a notable success. Jason will illustrate in more details the specific numbers for our Q1 results and our guidance for Q2 shortly. So while we are managing through the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, we're also working with our customers to address their concerns and request to reposition projects and teams to different geographies, which is very much guided by the business continuity plans we had previously established with our clients, including multiple relocation alternatives for our employees. In April, we also made the decision to exit our operations in Russia, which is in step with the market and the broader global response to the actions of the Russian government. We are fully committed to our talent in Russia who share our values and our position. And for most of our employees in the region, we are working multiple relocation alternatives to allow them to remain with the company and advance their careers at EPAM. This statement brings us to what we consider to be a Phase 2, which is our activities to accelerate the diversification for rebalancing, if you will, of our global locations and continued growth of our delivery capabilities. We have already begun the second phase, which closed the overlaps with the Phase 1. This acceleration includes rapidly scaling already existing delivery locations in India, Latin America and Central Asia as well as establishing several newly created delivery hubs and expanding many existing across Europe. This expansion supports active repositioning of our current employees and simultaneously creates opportunity to develop the local talent market in those hub locations. This will allow us to maintain the experienced delivery talent we currently have while also establishing new delivery footprints and allowing for significant increases in local hiring and better facilitating future growth in those locations. At this point, we can report that this development is in play already and we're seeing early success. We will continue to update you on our progress on those efforts throughout the year. I would also point out that in large part, this diversification program was well underway even during the past several years. Before COVID, our allocation to the talent from Ukraine, Belarus and Russia was close to 70% of our total production capacity. By the end of 2021, it was less than 60%. And we believe, by the end of 2022, we will manage to reduce the allocation of our production staff in the region to about 30%. Additionally, we have a strong intention to maintain and potentially grow our talent pool in Ukraine, which we believe will continue to be a significant IT talent market post war. While the size and scale of this disruption has been very significant and while we still should expect some very much unexpected things to happen, I think it's important to bring context that the rest of our business and customer portfolio continue to operate in a business-as-usual manner. The longer-term demand trends that have driven growth in our business before remains very much intact. We believe these trends, combined with our unique offerings, enabled by our differentiated engineering DNA and market positioning, will place us on the path to our familiar organic revenue growth profile sooner rather than later. And this brings us to what we call Phase 3, the period to focus on the revenue demand. This phase is also underway and will occur in parallel with two phases we described above. What this means is that we are focusing on revenue growth for new and existing customers and starting to operate in type of new normal environment for us. We believe that this new normal should elevate us back to sequential revenue growth during the second half of 2022. After that, we believe we will be able to enter Phase 4 of our recovery plan, which will be time to focus on profitability, with the objective to return to profit levels consistent with EPAM historical target ranges. This will show an important area of attention on our agenda already today, but we plan to have a stronger focus on profitability as well as on improving rate structures and optimizing performance of our new delivery locations throughout the second half of 2022 to show visible performance improvements while this phase will likely carry on into 2023. I think it's very much understandable that all the phases I just outlined are not sequential, and while many elements of these efforts, however, lacking in time, they also are very much interrelated and bring a high level of operational complexity into our day-to-day activities. At the same time, it's also important to underscore that the first two phases are already very much underway, and the next two phases are just getting started, that all phases will continue to be present in our life for some time. To summarize. While the cause of this disruption is beyond our control, today we are responding at a scale in a place to put our best effort together to contain as much as possible the impact of this war within 2022. Our new strategy is not really new, but an acceleration of our previously stated strategy: adapt, grow and deliver value across a broader, more engaged ecosystem of people, customers and partners. Based on our inherent heritage, tightly integrated with innovation and transformational consulting capabilities, we're developing over the last years, we will return to industry-leading growth and a more in line profitability model while still challenging ourselves in doubling the company's 2021 revenue in three years' time, as we have done previously three times since our IPO in 2012. I'm confident we will execute through this unimaginable challenge and emerge as a more diverse, more resilient and more relevant EPAM. I hope you will be able to join our Investor and analyst day event on May 19 in Boston, where we will share more insights in our plans and goals. Now let me turn the call over to Jason who will talk about our Q1 results and additional perspective as we look at Q2 and beyond.Jason Peterson -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Ark, and good morning, everyone. In the first quarter, EPAM delivered strong results despite the impact of the company's decision in March to discontinue services to customers based in Russia. In Q1, we also incurred some of the initial costs resulting from Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the acceleration of our geographic diversification strategy. Certain of these costs, including the expenditures related to EPAM's humanitarian commitment to Ukraine, charges for impairment of Russian long-lived assets and costs associated with accelerated employee relocation have been excluded from non-GAAP financial results. We have included additional disclosures specific to these and other related items in our Q1 earnings release. During the quarter, EPAM generated revenues of $1.17 billion, a year-over-year increase of 50.1% on a reported basis and 53% in constant currency terms, reflecting a negative foreign exchange impact of 290 basis points. Looking at the performance of our industry verticals in the quarter, travel & consumer grew 90.9% driven by strong organic growth from both our retail and travel customers as well as revenue contributions from recent acquisitions. Financial services grew 54%, with very strong broad-based growth coming from asset management, insurance and banking. Life sciences & healthcare grew 35.9%. Business information & media delivered 31.5% growth in the quarter. Software & hi-tech grew 28.8% in the quarter. And finally, our emerging verticals delivered 59.4% growth driven by clients in telecommunications, energy, manufacturing and automotive. From a geographic perspective, Americas, our largest region, representing 59% of our Q1 revenues, grew 46% year over year or 46.5% in constant currency. EMEA representing 36% of our Q1 revenues, grew 62.7% year over year or 68.1% in constant currency. EMEA performance was driven by strong organic growth, combined with an incremental contribution from recent acquisitions. CEE, representing 3% of our Q1 revenues, grew 10.5% year over year and 30.6% in constant currency. Growth in the quarter was reduced by the initial impact of the discontinuance of services to our customers located in Russia. And finally, APAC grew 41.2% year over year or 41.7% in constant currency terms and now represents 3% of our revenues. In Q1, revenues from our top 20 clients grew 32% year over year while revenues from clients outside our top 20 grew 63%. Moving down the income statement. Our GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 33.4% compared to 33.5% in Q1 of last year. Non-GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 33.3% compared to 34.9% for the same quarter last year. Gross margin in Q1 2022 was negatively impacted by the inability to recognize revenue resulting from work done for certain of our Russian customers as well as lower utilization in Russia, Belarus, and Ukraine. GAAP SG&A was 20.3% of revenue compared to 17.5% in Q1 of last year. And non-GAAP SG&A came in at 15.6% of revenue compared to 15.5% in the same period last year. SG&A in the quarter reflected a higher level of bad debt, largely driven by a higher level of reserves associated with our customers located in Russia. GAAP income from operations was $129 million or 11% of revenue in the quarter compared to $107 million or 13.7% of revenue in Q1 of last year. Non-GAAP income from operations was $189 million or 16.1% of revenue in the quarter compared to $137 million or 17.5% of revenue in Q1 of last year. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was 15.6%. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits, was 23.9% and includes a one-time charge related to certain tax credits. Diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis was $1.52, reflecting a $0.34 decline or 18.3% decrease year over year. GAAP EPS includes the impact of Ukrainian humanitarian expenditures, charges related to the impairment of Russian long-lived assets, expenses related to accelerated staff relocation, and losses on the Russian ruble forward contracts that were unwound in the quarter. Our non-GAAP diluted EPS was $2.49, reflecting a $0.68 increase or 37.6% growth over the same quarter in 2021. In Q1, there were approximately 58.9 million diluted shares outstanding. Now turning to our cash flow and balance sheet. Cash flow from operations for Q1 was a net cash outflow of $51.8 million compared to a net cash inflow of $13 million in the same quarter of 2021. Q1 cash flow was negatively impacted by expenditures related to our Ukrainian humanitarian support initiative and the payment of a higher level of companywide variable compensation based on our 2021 performance. We also accelerated the timing of variable compensation payments with a higher proportion paid in Q1 than in prior years. Free cash flow was negative $75.1 million compared to positive free cash flow of $2 million in the same quarter last year. We ended the quarter with approximately $1.3 billion in cash and cash equivalents. At the end of Q1, DSO was 69 days and compares to 62 days for Q4 2021 and 67 days for the same quarter last year. We expect to maintain DSO slightly above current levels throughout 2022. Now moving on to a few operational metrics. We ended the quarter with more than 55,050 consultants, designers and engineers, a year-over-year increase of 41.8%. Our total headcount for Q1 was around 61,600 employees. In the quarter, we had approximately 2,800 net additions. Production headcount growth was negatively impacted by lower-than-planned growth in Ukraine and an actual reduction in Russia-based production headcount. We continue to experience accelerated growth in production headcount in countries other than Ukraine, Russia, and Belarus. Utilization was 78.4% compared to 81.4% in Q1 of last year and 76.8% in Q4 2021. Our Q1 utilization includes those employees who have been assigned in a backup capacity to support projects substantially delivered from Ukraine. Although these employees were counted as utilized for the purpose of our utilization calculations, this work was largely unbilled. Utilization in Ukraine did decline somewhat on a year-over-year basis but is being maintained at extremely high levels considering the current operating environment. Now let's turn to our business outlook. On February 28, we withdrew our business outlook due to the uncertainties related to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. For the remainder of this year, we plan to provide guidance for the next quarter only, with the expectation of resuming our full year guidance at the beginning of the 2023 year. Additionally, to help align with our thinking around significant events, let me provide a few broad assumptions which will help frame our guidance for Q2 and the remainder of 2022. Russian aggression continues to take a terrible pull on Ukraine, but most of the fighting is currently concentrated in the eastern portion of the country. We continue to see relatively high levels of productivity from our Ukrainian staff who are substantially located in safer portions of the country. Our Q2 guidance assumes that we will maintain Ukrainian utilization at slightly lower levels than those experienced in Q1. During the initial weeks of invasion, we were able to relocate approximately 2,000 employees out of the country where they are safe and productive. EPAM has spent over $25 million so far as part of the company's $100 million humanitarian commitment to Ukraine and the Ukrainian employees and their families. Further, humanitarian expenditures will be made in Q2 and throughout the remainder of the year. To date, we have relocated significant numbers of our Russian employees to delivery locations outside of Russia and we expect to relocate more of our Russian employees throughout Q2. Employees relocated outside of Russia are being moved to fill billable positions and are expected to be billable in their destination countries. However, during Q2, we expect that lower levels of demand for Russia-based resources will result in considerably lower utilization levels for those staff remaining in the country. At this time, we are planning to maintain operations in Belarus. However, we expect a lower level of utilization as we execute business continuity plans for a defined number of clients who would like us to deliver from countries other than Belarus. In parallel with the repositioning of our people, we have begun the effort to align our cost and rate structures to reflect the prevailing economics in the geographies to which demand has been redirected. In many cases, the result will be increasing billing rates to reflect higher costs, although we expect some lag in the establishment of these higher bill rates. Additionally, we expect some short-term inefficiencies as we scale newer delivery locations. The combination of these factors will put downward pressure on our profitability in Q2. However, we expect to see ongoing improvement in profitability in the second half of 2022, with the return to something closer to our historical levels of profitability in the first half of 2023. Lastly, based on the continued strong demand, stability in our customer portfolio and progress in accelerating our global diversification, we expect to return to positive sequential revenue growth in the second half of 2022. Now moving on to our Q2 2022 outlook. We expect revenues to be at least $1.14 billion, producing a year-over-year growth rate of at least 29%. In constant currency terms, revenue growth is expected to be at least 34%. Included in these growth rates is approximately 600 basis points of revenue contribution to come from acquisitions closed over the last 12 months. For the second quarter, we expect GAAP income from operations to be in the range of 3% to 5% and non-GAAP income from operations to be in the range of 10% to 12%. We expect our GAAP effective tax rate to be approximately 19% and our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, to be approximately 23%. For earnings per share, we expect GAAP diluted EPS to be at least $0.73 for the quarter and non-GAAP diluted EPS to be at least $1.70 for the quarter. We expect a weighted average share count of 59.5 million diluted shares outstanding. Finally, a few key assumptions that support our GAAP to non-GAAP measurements in the second quarter. Stock-based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $27.5 million. Amortization of intangibles is expected to be approximately $6 million. The impact of foreign exchange is expected to be approximately a $1.5 million loss. Tax effect to non-GAAP adjustments is expected to be around $16.5 million. And finally, we expect excess tax benefits to be around $4 million in the quarter. In addition to these traditional GAAP to non-GAAP measurements, consistent with Q1, we will have additional non-GAAP adjustments in Q2 that are a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Please see our Q1 earnings release for a detailed reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP guidance. In summary, despite a challenging March, we are pleased with our Q1 results. In Q2 and for the remainder of the year, EPAM will continue to focus on the geographic repositioning of our company. Then in the second half of the year, we expect to see both improving profitability and a return to sequential growth. Now I would like to take this opportunity to thank all EPAMers, but particularly those EPAMers working from Ukraine. It is hard to imagine living through all that you're living through and still doing all that is necessary to meet delivery obligations and sustain EPAM operations in the country. My thoughts and prayers are with you and your families. I also have a huge amount of respect for all of you. Operator, let's open the call up for questions. 