  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Bristol-Myers Squibb 2021 first-quarter results conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Tim Power, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Tim Power -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thanks, Keith. And good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us today for our first-quarter 2021 earnings call. Joining me this morning with prepared remarks are Giovanni Caforio, our board chair and chief executive officer; and David Elkins, our chief financial officer. Also participating in today's call for Q&A are Chris Boerner, our chief commercialization officer; and Samit Hirawat, our chief medical officer and head of global drug development. As you will see, we've posted slides to bms.com that you can use to follow along with for today's remarks. But before we get started, let me read our forward-looking statements. During this call, we'll make statements about the company's future plans and prospects that constitute forward-looking statements.Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in the company's SEC filings. These forward-looking statements represent our estimates as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any future date. We specifically disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements, even if our estimates change. We'll also focus our comments on our non-GAAP financial measures, which are adjusted to exclude certain specified items. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available on bms.com. Giovanni? 

 



Giovanni Caforio -- Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Tim, and good morning, everyone. Let me start by saying that I'm proud of our continued strong execution during a global pandemic and the significant progress we are making against our strategy. I want to recognize and thank our global employees for their hard work and resilience through this challenging time. Now turning to Slide 4. We at the start of the year, I laid out our strategy to grow our business and renew our portfolio through the end of the decade. During the first quarter, we delivered strong results consistent with this strategy. We successfully grew our revenues, launched new medicines and new indications for I-O and continued to advance our pipeline. Starting with our financial performance, Our revenue grew 3% despite the impact of COVID-19-related buying patterns in Q1 of last year. Our quarter was strong for sales and EPS in the context of COVID-related dynamics for some of our products. Based on continued strength in our business, we are affirming our full-year non-GAAP guidance for 2021. The accelerated renewal of our portfolio advanced across all four key therapeutic areas. Through regulatory approvals and clinical readouts, we're building a more diversified, younger portfolio that will fuel our growth through the decade and beyond.

 



 Although there remains uncertainty with how the COVID recovery will evolve, we are actively planning to return colleagues to the workplace, and are prioritizing plans to fully bring our sales reps back in the field, where conditions allow, to further support our in-line products and launches. Let's turn to our execution scorecard on Slide 5. I am pleased that we've already made solid progress across the board during Q1. Specifically, in oncology, Opdivo is the first and only I-O agent with a first-line approval in gastric cancer. Combined with our opportunities in metastatic and adjuvant esophageal cancer, Opdivo can become the leading I-O medicine for patients with early and advanced GI cancers. We have strengthened the growth and long-term sustainability of our I-O franchise with a positive Phase 3 clinical trial for relatlimab. We're now the only company with three proven I-O mechanisms. Building on our leadership position in melanoma with the Opdivo plus Yervoy regimen, we've now demonstrated a clinically meaningful PFS benefit on top of PD-1 monotherapy for a second I-O agent, which is a great accomplishment knowing the high efficacy of PD-1 monotherapy in first-line melanoma. This is great news for patients with advanced melanoma, and we look forward to presenting the data at ASCO in June. Beyond I-O, six of our eight near-term launches are now successfully under way. In hematology, we made great progress in our cell therapy franchise with U.S. approvals of Breyanzi and Abecma. Our other new product launches are also progressing well. A lot is happening in immunology. We presented Phase 3 data for deucrava, which we expect to file later this year. We see this as an important medicine for patients and the company with significant revenue potential. As you know, deucrava is a first-in-class selective TYK2 inhibitor with the potential to become the new oral standard of care in moderate-to-severe psoriasis. It also has broader potential to treat diseases such as psoriatic arthritis, IBD and lupus. In our mid-stage pipeline, we initiated the Phase 3 study for cendakimab in eosinophilic esophagitis. And in CV, we filed mavacamten with the FDA and have a PDUFA date of early next year. Given the potential for our early stage pipeline with multiple assets across therapeutic areas and modalities, including protein homeostasis, cell therapy and next-generation biologics, we are planning a more in-depth session with you sometime in the fall to update you on the progress within our pipeline and how that further supports the long-term potential of the company. Now turning to Slide 6. Our team's execution as a new company so far has been remarkable and reinforces my confidence in our ability to capitalize on the potential for future growth. We remain focused on growing our business between 2020 and 2025. More importantly, we expect that in '25, our LOE products will constitute less than 10% of our business with roughly one-third of our continuing business coming from our launch portfolio. We believe our new launch portfolio has significant potential, with $20 billion to $25 billion of non-risk-adjusted sales potential in 2029. And this does not include the potential medicines that could come from our mid- or early stage pipeline. To close, I'm confident we have established a strong foundation for our future growth. The strength of our execution, promising launch opportunities ahead, the breadth of our pipeline and strength of our balance sheet positions us very well. I will now turn it over to David to walk you through the financials. David?David Elkins -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Giovanni. And thank you, all, for joining our call today. I'd like to start with our strong top-line performance on Slide 8. Our continued sales growth of 3% was driven by strong operational performance. When excluding the approximately $500 million of COVID-related buying patterns we experienced last year, underlying sales growth was strong, up 8%, or 6% excluding the benefits of foreign exchange, as our teams continue to execute very well while operating in a mostly virtual environment. I'll now provide additional color on the performance of our key brands and new launches, starting with Eliquis on Slide 9. This was another strong quarter for Eliquis as global sales were up 9% despite the unwinding of a fourth-quarter inventory build and the approximately $350 million COVID-related build we experienced this time last year. In the U.S., first-quarter sales increased 8% versus prior year, driven by strong demand with total prescriptions up 11% due to the strength of our position as the No. 1 NOAC. First-quarter sales also included the impact of a onetime true-up of approximately $160 million related to the Medicare coverage gap. As we look toward the second half of the year, we expect similar dynamics from the coverage gap as we've seen in prior years. We remain optimistic about the continued growth opportunity for Eliquis since we've seen both new-to-brand OAC volumes return to prepandemic levels, as well as accelerated switching from warfarin. Internationally, sales remained strong, growing 11% versus prior year. Eliquis continues to be the No. 1 NOAC in multiple key markets internationally with significant room to grow. We remain very pleased with the execution of Eliquis around the world and expect to continue to grow Eliquis share within a growing class. Now turning to Opdivo on Slide 10. As it relates to the first-quarter performance in the U.S., first-line lung shares remained in the low double digits within the I-O eligible population. The launch of our Opdivo plus Cabo indication in first-line renal is going well and further builds on our strong position in that space with significant uptake in the unfavorable segment where Opdivo plus Yervoy is not indicated. But we did see some impact from COVID during the quarter as the resurgence of the virus earlier in the year impacted offices at an infusion, we remain very confident in Opdivo's return to growth this year. Further supporting this growth, we are also very pleased with the recent approval of CheckMate -649 as Opdivo plus chemo is now the first I-O regimen approved in first-line gastric cancer. We look forward to launching additional indications in early stage diseases across esophageal and muscle-invasive bladder cancers, which are expected to further contribute to our growth later this year. Additionally, we have multiple opportunities for future growth, including CheckMate -648, for the treatment in first-line esophageal cancer, which we announced as primary endpoints, as well as from other trials that will read out over time. Outside the U.S., sales were up 2% due to favorable effects of foreign exchange. We are encouraged to see strong adoption of new approvals and increased reimbursement, including the 9LA regimen in Europe and both 9LA and 227 regimens in Japan. These dynamics offset the second-line indications and the impact of COVID. Looking forward, we expect to expand the use of Opdivo in several additional indications currently under review. All in all, we remain very excited about the growth outlook for Opdivo. Moving to Slide 11, I'd like to touch on our in-line multiple myeloma portfolio. In the U.S., Revlimid sales are flat. Its growth was offset by the expected work-down of last quarter's inventory build. We also saw the expected seasonality that Revlimid and Pomalyst experienced due to patients entering the coverage gap early in the year. Outside the U.S., we saw a 4% increase primarily from foreign exchange, as well as strong demand for triplet-based therapies, which offset the approximate $100 million combined impact of an inventory build in a tender last year. This resulted in a 1% increase for Revlimid globally. Global Pomalyst revenues were up 8%. This was driven by overall strong demand from triplet-based regimens and use in earlier lines. Now we want to spend a few minutes sharing the progress we've made in the quarter on our recent launches on Slide 12. Our launches contributed $145 million in sales in the quarter. Let's start with Reblozyl, which generated $112 million in the first quarter. We continue to be pleased with the launch and uptake in new patient starts. We continue to see the transition from initial bolus to underlying demand. And while this market has seen some COVID impact, we remain focused on continuing to drive new starts for patients earlier in their treatment journey. Our initial launches in international markets are going well. And we will continue to add markets globally over the course of the year as we receive reimbursement. Moving to Zeposia, where we continue to see good traction in establishing the brand as the S1P modulator choice in multiple sclerosis. Positive initial prescribing experiences are translating into repeat scripts, and we are also encouraged to see patients convert to commercial supply at a quicker rate than before. Beyond multiple sclerosis, we look forward to launching Zeposia in ulcerative colitis with FDA approval expected at the end of May. Outside the U.S., we are pleased with Zeposia's MS launches in several markets, and we will continue to secure reimbursement in additional markets as the year progresses. The marketing authorization application for ulcerative colitis also remains under review in Europe with approval expected toward the end of this year. Turning to Onureg. We continue to be encouraged by the launch where our teams remain focused on establishing the profile as the first and only oral treatment to demonstrate an overall survival benefit in the first-line maintenance setting of AML. Physician feedback and awareness have been positive, and our focus remains on shaping and establishing Onureg in a new maintenance segment of the AML treatment paradigm, which we know will take some time. Outside the U.S., we recently received a positive opinion from the CHMP with approval expected this year. Turning to our new newly established cell therapy franchise on Slide 13. We are very excited to have launched two differentiated cell therapies for patients following the recent approval of Breyanzi in large B-cell lymphoma and Abecma in multiple myeloma. First, regarding Breyanzi, our best-in-class CD19. While we are early in the launch, messages around efficacy and outpatient utilization are resonating, with high aided awareness among CAR-T treaters. We have also been very pleased with the rapid activation of our treatment sites as we now have approximately 55 sites activated with patients already apheresed and recently infused. And as it relates to Abecma, we're excited to have the first-ever BCMA CAR-T approved for patients with highly refractory multiple myeloma, where we're just a few weeks into the launch, we are encouraged by the enthusiasm we are hearing from customers for the treatment. We also see a real opportunity for synergy from the combined execution of these two therapies as Abecma is able to leverage the existing and growing site footprint of Breyanzi. For both these important new medicines, our priorities are expanding the site footprint through rapid account activation and maximizing our differentiated profiles while ensuring a seamless customer experience. Now let me take you through a few items on the P&L on Slide 14. First, as we've said, our gross margin will continue to be largely a function of product mix, and in the first quarter, our gross margin rate was impacted by the strength of Eliquis, in addition to foreign exchange. Operating expenses reflect continued MS&A investment in our multiple launches across various therapeutic areas. And as that relates to our tax rate, our effective rate in the quarter was 16.8%, which reflects our earnings mix for the quarter. Now switching gears to the balance sheet and our capital allocation on Slide 15. Our liquidity position remains strong with approximately $13 billion in cash and marketable securities, including strong cash flow from operations of nearly $4 billion in the quarter. Regarding capital allocation, business development remains our top priority for the company, and we will continue to evaluate opportunities to complement our internal innovation. With regard to our debt reduction this quarter, we've demonstrated our commitment to strong investment-grade credit rating by accelerating our repayment of debt by a $4 billion tender and redemption. We are also committed to returning cash to shareholders through dividend and share repurchases. Recall that we increased our share repurchase authorization by $2 billion at the start of the year, and that we plan to buy back between $3 billion and $4 billion in shares this year. In the first quarter, we have already repurchased $1.8 billion toward that goal, and we will remain opportunistic as the year progresses. Now turning to our 2021 guidance on Slide 16. Following this quarter's performance, we are reaffirming our non-GAAP guidance for the year, which reflects significant growth over last year. Our businesses have remained resilient. And our launch opportunities have come into fruition. Again, I'm pleased not with just the performance, but also with the considerable progress we made in executing our launches and advancing our pipeline. I'd now like to turn the call back over to Tim and Giovanni for Q&A.Tim Power -- Vice President, Investor Relations Great. Thanks very much, David. Keith, can we go to our first question, please? 