
OperatorWelcome to the DexCom Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Release Conference Call. My name is Darryl, and I will be your operator for today's call. [Operator Instructions].I will now turn the call over to Sean Christensen. Sean, you may begin.Sean Christensen -- Director of Corporate Affairs and Head of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, operator, and welcome to DexCom's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Our agenda begins with Kevin Sayer, DexCom's Chairman, President and CEO, who will provide a summary of our progress on our third quarter highlights and strategic initiatives; followed by a financial review and outlook from Jereme Sylvain, our Chief Financial Officer. Following our prepared remarks, we'll open the call up for your questions. Our Chief Technology Officer, Jake Leach, will also be present with us for the Q&A period. [Operator Instructions] Please note that there are also slides available related to our third quarter performance on the DexCom Investor Relations website on the Events and Presentations page. With that, let's review our safe harbor statement. Some of the statements we will make in today's call may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's intentions, beliefs, expectations and assumptions about future events, strategies, competition, products, operating plans and performance. All forward-looking statements included in this presentation are made as of the date hereof based on information currently available to DexCom, are subject to various risks and uncertaintiesand and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any of these forward-looking statements are detailed in DexCom's annual report on Form 10-K, most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this presentation or to conform these forward-looking statements to actual results. Additionally, during the call, we will discuss certain financial measures that have not been prepared in accordance with GAAP with respect to our non-GAAP and cash-based results. Unless otherwise noted, all references to financial metrics are presented on a non-GAAP basis. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results or superior to results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Please refer to the tables in our earnings release and the slides accompanying our third quarter earnings presentation for a reconciliation of these measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.Now I will turn it over to Kevin.Kevin Sayer -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Sean, and thank you, everyone, for joining us. Today, we reported another strong quarter for DexCom with third quarter revenue growth of 30% compared to the third quarter of 2020 and 28% growth on an organic basis. This revenue growth rate represents continued momentum from DexCom CGM adoption around the world, as we once again achieved a record quarter of new customer growth. The third quarter also saw several strategic accomplishments across our teams that lay the foundation for our future growth opportunities. In the U.S., we received FDA clearance for two key software solutions that continue to differentiate our connected products from those of our competitors and position us as a partner of choice across a healthcare and wearables ecosystem. First, in July, we received FDA clearance for our real-time API. For those of you who are unaware, an API is the tool that allows one app to connect with another app. Prior to this clearance, our customers and clinicians could only utilize our retrospective API, which integrated DexCom data into third-party apps on a 3-hour delayed basis. We believe that by putting the power of choice at our users' fingertips with real-time data, we can help ease the daily burden of diabetes management and significantly improved quality of life for our customers. This tool will be available to partners invited by DexCom, and we already have several that have begun the development process to enable real-time displays for their communities. This includes Garmin, which became the first partner to launch apps connected to our real-time API two weeks ago, bringing DexCom readings into their portfolio of wearables and cycling computers. Second, on the heels of the real-time API clearance, we received FDA clearance in August for the DexCom app, an app module.This module was specifically designed for people with nonintensive type two diabetes and can directly integrate into another third-party healthcare app. With the integrated DexCom app, it is now even easier for our partners to access and display our CGM data, enabling single app solutions that simplify the experiences for DexCom users. UnitedHealth Group became our first partner to launch the integrated DexCom app in app module in late September, bringing the embedded app into their Level two diabetes care program. Our connectivity, software and data infrastructure solutions are our core strength of DexCom. These two recent FDA clearances reflect the increased investment that we put into software development and we believe increase our competitive advantages moving forward. In late September, we also announced the launch of DexCom one in four international markets where we previously had no presence. Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. DexCom one leverages the G6 hardware platform and a completely redesigned software experience that focuses on simplicity, and ease of use for our customers. This is the first product launch in our history that started exclusively through the DexCom e-commerce platform, a platform that has been embraced by our customers in Canada and the U.K. over the past two years. With the proven performance of our CGM systems, the new software experience and efficient e-commerce solution and affordable pricing plans, we believe that DexCom one will be an important product for us as we drive the business toward our long-term targets. Most importantly, this differentiated product is a key step for us to bring DexCom CGM to significantly more people with diabetes who previously did not have access to our products.Early feedback around the product has been very favorable, and we look forward to seeing the full results from these launches as we leverage the full breadth of our expanding product portfolio to achieve our 2020 Investor Day goal of tripling our international addressable market by the end of 2023. Building from the strength of our mobile trial that was published in the Journal of the American Medical Association in June, investigators published the results from the extension phase of the trial in Diabetes care during the third quarter. In this extension phase, we rerandomized the population who are initially on CGM to see if the benefits would be retained for those who stayed on CGM compared to those who returned to fingerstick monitoring. Once again, the results were clear. Those who stayed on our G6 systems maintain greater time and range improvements over the 6-month extension phase compared to those who did not. The results confirmed that for the significant population of people with type two diabetes on basal insulin, there is significant benefit in continuous CGM use to optimize therapy and support behavior modifications. Our teams are working hard to leverage the conclusions from mobile into greater access to our technology for people with type two diabetes. And this is just one area in which we are building the foundation for our long-term growth. We are advancing our pilot efforts with UnitedHealth Level two, Teladoc's Livongo for Diabetes, WellDoc, Onduo and others. We are generating strong clinical evidence for expanded indications for CGM use in inpatient settings and for women who are pregnant. We continue to leverage our advantages in connectivity by gaining new customers and progressing our pipeline of solutions with our leading insulin delivery partners.Finally, we continue to advance our G7 scale-up and regulatory efforts during the quarter. We've had excellent communication with our notified body in Europe and believe that we remain on track to begin the launch of our G7 system in the fourth quarter upon receiving CE Mark clearance. In the U.S., we've made great progress in preparation for our regulatory submission. I believe that we are now in the final stages of that effort. We look forward to the comprehensive G7 510(k) submission, including G7 hardware and full Android and iOS software to the FDA in the next few weeks. As you can see, our teams are working very hard and making great progress to advance our core strategic efforts, whether it is in expanding our product portfolio, creating differentiated user experiences or laying the foundation for new market opportunities that will drive our future growth.

 



So with that said, let me turn it over now to Jereme for a review of our third quarter financial performance. Jereme?Jereme Sylvain -- Executive Vice President-Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Kevin. As a reminder, unless otherwise noted, the financial metrics presented today will be discussed on a non-GAAP basis. Reconciliations to GAAP can be found in today's earnings release as well as on our IR website. For the third quarter of 2021, we reported worldwide revenue of $650 million compared to $501 million for the third quarter of 2020, representing growth of 30% on a reported basis and 28% on an organic basis. In late July, we were proud to complete the acquisition of our distributor in Australia and New Zealand. With this acquisition, we began generating revenue for certain non-CGM healthcare products, which we have categorized as inorganic growth for the quarter. This non-CGM distribution revenue contributed approximately 2% to our reported growth for the third quarter. The transition from distributor markets to direct sales is one of several important strategic initiatives that we outlined at our 2020 Investor Day as we seek to significantly grow our international presence. We believe a larger direct international footprint will give us greater control to leverage our marketing strength, invest in accelerating our growth and ensure that the direction of these core markets is aligned to our strategic interest. In terms of the financial impact of the third quarter acquisition, we expect the transaction to be approximately neutral to our operating margin for the full year as it was in the third quarter. U.S. revenue totaled $490 million in the third quarter compared to $399 million in the third quarter of 2020, representing growth of 23%. We continue to see good momentum in the U.S. where we are benefiting from the increased market access and field presence that we've enabled over the past year. New customer growth remains strong across all segments of the population including people with type one diabetes, intensively manage people with type two diabetes where we have significantly expanded market access in the past year and even early adopters in the type two non-intensive population. Our international business grew 57% in the third quarter, totaling $161 million.Excluding the impact of non-CGM distribution revenue generated by our acquisition of our distributor in Australia and New Zealand, growth for our international business was 46% in the third quarter. We continue to see very encouraging growth across the board in our international markets with the majority of our markets delivering record sales in the third quarter. Although it is still early, we believe that our strategic moves to broaden access in several markets have been very successful thus far and have left us well positioned to expand our growth profile internationally, and you see that in the reflected current quarter results. Along those lines, our global volume growth in the third quarter remained strong, exceeding 40% for the quarter. This is well above our 28% organic revenue growth rate and supports the momentum behind DexCom CGM globally, as we aggressively seek to advance access to our technology and drive better health outcomes and quality of life for people with diabetes. As Kevin mentioned, the launch of DexCom one adds to our product portfolio and provides another key element of our strategy to expand access to CGM globally. As we continue to scale our business in conjunction with our ambitious plans for customer growth, we are creating tools that allow us to serve our growing base in an efficient manner, and the use of our e-commerce platform for the initial DexCom one launch is a good example of that focus. Our third quarter gross profit was $446.9 million or 68.7% of revenue compared to 68% of revenue in the third quarter of 2020. The year-over-year gross margin expansion is an impressive result, especially when you factor in our strategic efforts this year to drive greater mix to the pharmacy channel and expanded international access.This is a credit to our teams who have innovated and embrace change where necessary to drive efficiencies and position us to maximize our strategic opportunities. We continue to demonstrate the ability to leverage both our manufacturing operations and R&D teams to be ever more efficient in the delivery of our products. Operating expenses were $323.1 million for Q3 2021 compared to $245.7 million in Q3 2020. Operating expenses, as a percentage of sales were relatively flat year-over-year as we offset investments in software development, G7 scale-up and our expanded global commercial sales force with strong leverage of our general and administrative functions. Operating income was $123.8 million in the third quarter of 2021 compared to $95 million in the same quarter of 2020, holding flat 19% of revenue. As this result indicates we've been able to retain much of our operating margin this year even as we have significantly reinvested in our business. Adjusted EBITDA was $173.5 million or 26.7% of revenue for the third quarter compared to $146.9 million or 29.3% of revenue for the third quarter of 2020. Net income for the third quarter was $89.5 million or $0.89 per share. We closed the quarter with approximately $2.7 billion in cash and cash equivalents, giving us great financial flexibility to drive our strategic initiatives. This includes the continued build-out of our manufacturing facility in Malaysia and G7 scale-up in Mesa, Arizona as well as opportunities that are relying on our business objectives, such as our recent distributor acquisition. Turning to guidance. Our third quarter performance has placed us in a position to once again raise our full year 2021 outlook for revenue and margins as we look to wrap up another excellent year. We now expect 2021 revenue to be between $2.425 billion and $2.450 billion, representing growth of 26% to 27% over 2020. This guidance includes approximately 100 basis points of non-CGM inorganic growth related to our recent distributor acquisition. Turning to margins. We are increasing our full year 2021 targets. This includes non-GAAP results to be approximately at the following levels, which include a neutral impact from our distributor acquisition. Gross profit margins of approximately 68%, operating margins of approximately 16%, and adjusted EBITDA margins of approximately 25%.With that, I will now turn the call back to Kevin.Kevin Sayer -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThere are a number of things that we could celebrate, and I'd like to take the time now to thank all of the teams at DexCom and specifically highlight a few things that we are proud of. First, to our new DexCom team members in Australia and New Zealand, we are absolutely thrilled to have you with us on our journey to empower people to take control of diabetes. We look forward to working together and learning from you as we bring our technology to those in need in these key markets. Our operations team has provided another highlight in the third quarter as our G6 manufacturing yields reached all-time highs, and our warranty rates reached all-time lows. Those are the kind of metrics that lead to the margin improvements that we've seen and reflect countless hours of work from our talented employees. And finally, our R&D team continues to innovate with several updates to our sensor pipeline as well as our leadership in data and software solutions. The two FDA clearances this quarter are a testament to those efforts and a nice validation of the strategy that we discussed to leverage software as a competitive advantage and a key area of investment. As Sean mentioned at the start of the call, we've invited Jake Leach, our Chief Technology Officer, to join us for the Q&A portion of the call in order to address any questions around these clearances and our product innovation.I would now like to open the call up for Q&A. Sean?Sean Christensen -- Director of Corporate Affairs and Head of Investor Relations[Operator Instructions] Operator, please provide the Q&A instructions.