
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Q1 2022 Abiomed, Inc. Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Todd Trapp, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.Todd A. Trapp -- Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 



Good morning, and welcome to Abiomed's first quarter of fiscal year 2022 earnings conference call. This is Todd Trapp, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and I'm here with Mike Minogue, Abiomed's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.The format for today's call will be as follows: first, Mike will discuss first quarter business and operational highlights, and then I will review our financial results, which were outlined in our press release. After that, we will open the call to your questions.During the call, we will discuss certain financial information on a non-GAAP basis. This non-GAAP information is provided to enhance your overall understanding of our current financial performance. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results or superior to results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results are presented in the tables in our earnings release.Finally, I would like to remind everyone today, this call includes forward-looking statements. The Company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements involves risks and uncertainties and are not guaranteed in the future. Actual results may differ materially due to a variety of factors identified in our earnings press release and our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.

 



With that, let me turn the call over to Abiomed's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mike Minogue.Michael R. Minogue -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Todd, and good morning, everyone. Abiomed reported a strong start to our fiscal year 2022 with global record revenue and record patient utilization in the US, Europe and Japan. In Q1, we delivered revenue of $253 million, up 53% versus prior year and up 5% versus prior quarter. Within the quarter, we achieved a 26.2% non-GAAP operating margin, while continuing to invest with a focus on extending our lead in innovation, advancing clinical evidence, and building a premier commercial team. Our balance sheet remains robust with $805 million in cash and zero debt, while acquiring preCARDIA, a heart failure company. We grew our IP portfolio to 1,216 Impella patents and over 1,000 patents pending. We have maintained our disciplined execution on our strategic goals and Abiomed 2.0 continues to drive our success. I am proud of our employees for their continued hard work and dedication to our patients and mission of recovering hearts and saving lives.On today's call, I will highlight progress on our product innovation milestones for Impella 5.5 and RP, the regulatory status for Impella ECP and briefly discuss our strategy to be the leading Company for all cardiologists and heart surgeons at every heart hospital, which means they have a cath lab and a surgical suite. Beginning with innovation. The Impella 5.5 with SmartAssist continues to perform very well. In the quarter, our US Surgical revenue grew 115% year-over-year and 17% versus prior quarter, as we expanded this life-saving device to 46 more sites or 257 sites out of the 1,113 heart hospitals in total. Impella 5.5 is a revolutionary product. It does not require a sternotomy or coring of the left ventricle. And it is a forward flow fully unloading weanable heart pump designed for heart surgeons to implant in less than 60 minutes via the axillary artery in the shoulder. The minimally invasive implant also allows for early ambulation for the patient, which correlates to faster recovery and better outcomes. The longer usage time for the Impella 5.5 allows the SmartAssist software to track aortic pressure, left ventricular pressure, make predictive analysis on volume and right heart stability and communicate in the cloud with Impella Connect. We look forward to continuing to roll this device out to the remaining 856 heart hospitals in the US and many more outside the US.

 



We also received FDA pre-market approval for the Impella RP with SmartAssist as safe and effective to treat acute right heart failure. This smart pump is the next-generation of right heart support and already has exclusive weaning capability and FDA approval for right heart failure with multiple FDA studies and a recent Emergency Use Authorization for COVID patients with pulmonary embolism. It is the first single venous access percutaneous heart pump with the sensor for the right ventricle. The sensor technology provides real-time guidance and trends that help with pump management and weaning. Much of this groundbreaking information on the right ventricle will be published and will elucidate the field of right heart failure.The Impella CP, Impella 5.5 and Impella RP now all utilize SmartAssist software, enhanced with Impella Connect to enable remote monitoring from any Internet-connected device through a secure HIPAA-compliant website. The Impella Connect software is now live at more than 80% of our US sites and approximately 80% of our US patients on support are monitored in the cloud. No other company in this space offers this capability or 24/7 service to the hospital, which is ideal with COVID. We also continue to accelerate the rollout of Impella Connect in Germany and Japan.Next, we remain ahead of schedule on our Impella ECP early feasibility study, EFS. Impella ECP is the world's smallest heart pump and measures 9 French in diameter, easing insertion and removal from the body. This allows for a smaller access [Phonetic] site optimal for Protected PCI, which we believe will continue to drive better outcomes and overall utilization. To date, we have achieved our initial FDA study milestones, enrolled 25 patients and submitted additional clinical data to the FDA for review. We plan to expand this breakthrough technology to new sites with product enhancements already implemented in the EFS process to up to 50 patients. In parallel, based on our interaction with the FDA, we have started to prepare the details of the single-arm pivotal Impella ECP high-risk PCI study. Next quarter, we expect to confirm our IDE protocol and submit for approval with the goal to enroll our first pivotal patient for high-risk PCI by the end of our fiscal year. We want to complement the FDA for this EFS program overall, which allows for faster innovation, real-time safety feedback, and accelerated access to new technology for US patients.Finally, our strategy to become the leading player for the heart team which includes interventional cardiologists, heart failure cardiologists, intensivists and heart surgeons grows stronger. Our breakthrough platform now includes the Impella portfolio, ECMO with Breethe, ECPella and recently acquired preCARDIA. preCARDIA was designated by the FDA as a breakthrough technology and will complement our existing product portfolio, increased options for patients with acutely decompensated heart failure called ADHF, and expand our relationship with heart failure specialists managing the ICU. Heart failure is the leading cause of hospitalization in patients older than 65 years of age and we believe this device has the potential to be a revolutionary tool for the treatment of millions of patients in early stage ADHF, a new patient population for Abiomed. This strategic acquisition in combination with our continued Impella 5.5 success and our future Impella BTR pump marks our movement toward minimally invasive devices for the heart failure community, including our hub-and-spoke hospital network in every region of the country.To further enhance these clinical efforts, we continued to invest in commercial excellence with a focus on the broader heart failure community and the referral network. Specifically, we began our direct outreach referral programs that we expect will better identify the under-treated high-risk PCI patient population of 440,000 US patients. We continue to deliver best-in-class training and education by leveraging CAMP PCI and transition to both virtual and onsite settings. We've seen physician traction on our educational platform through events such as live cases and advisory boards and are excited to expand CAMP PCI internationally, as well as at CAMP heart failure and CAMP heart surgery this fiscal year.Before I conclude, I would like to share an inspiring patient story. John Fisher, 77, is a husband, grandfather, and retired law enforcement officer from Ashland, Ohio. John has been experienced chest pain for more than a year, had been -- when the chest pain became more severe following his recovery from COVID-19, he decided to seek treatment. After an evaluation, John was diagnosed with coronary artery disease, and evaluated for coronary artery bypass surgery called CABG surgery. Due to a low ejection fraction of 15% and multiple co-morbidities, including type 2 diabetes, John was turned down for surgery. Interventional cardiologist, Dr. Atish Mathur, determined John was a candidate for Protected PCI with Impella. Dr. Mathur inserted the Impella CP with SmartAssist while he performed a complete revascularization. John returned home six days later. Today, his heart function is normal with a current EF of 55%, and he enjoys walking his dogs, wood working and spending time with his grandson, who happens to work at Abiomed in headquarters.In closing, we will continue to create and deliver value by successfully advancing our innovation, clinical research and commercial distribution. We remain steadfast to our mission of creating the field of heart recovery and driving a new standard of care for multiple growing patient populations around the world. Q1 was a solid start and we believe we are well positioned for success in fiscal year 2022. I would like to thank our employees and customers for their dedication to the mission of recovering hearts and saving lives, and we appreciate the ongoing support of our shareholders.I would like to now turn the call over to Todd Trapp, our CFO.Todd A. Trapp -- Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Mike, and good morning, everyone. We delivered strong results in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022 with revenue of $253 million, an increase of 53% versus prior year, primarily due to the recovery in patient utilization from COVID-19.Starting with the US, total US revenue grew 54% year-over-year to $207 million. This growth was driven by a 43% increase in patient utilization, favorable sales mix and a higher reorder rate. We are encouraged by the continued recovery from COVID within the quarter as we continue to see patients working their way back into the system. At the end of our fiscal Q1, in the US, the CP is in now 1,528 sites. We are placing Impella 5.0 in 665 sites and the Impella 5.5 with SmartAssist is now in 257 sites, up 46 sites versus prior quarter. Lastly, the Impella RP is in 609 sites, up 21 sites versus Q4. Our US reorder performance in the quarter was slightly above 100%, and average combined inventory at the hospitals for the Impella 2.5 and CP was 4.7 units per site. This is consistent with the inventory levels of the prior two quarters.Outside the US, revenue totaled $45 million, up 51% versus prior year. European revenue increased 64% year-over-year due to a strong recovery in patient utilization, favorable sales mix, and it benefit from the foreign exchange rate. Our Japan business delivered $11.3 million in revenue, up 26% year-over-year due to a 78% growth in patient utilization offsetting lower site openings. In the quarter, we opened five new sites, bringing our total sites to 171. This compares to the 10 site openings last quarter and 13 site openings in Q1 of 2021. We have seen some impact due to hospital restrictions related to COVID-19 and the Summer Olympics, which limits our ability to train new sites. But this is more timing, as our backlog for new sites in Japan remains robust, and we expect to open more sites in the second half of the year as vaccination rates increase and hospital restrictions ease.Gross margin in Q1 was 82.1%, compared to 78.2% in the same period of the prior year. The 390 basis point increase was primarily driven by higher volume and favorable sales mix.Our Q1 GAAP financial results for the quarter are summarized in our press release and earnings deck. For the remainder of the call, I'm going to provide the highlights of our financial performance on a non-GAAP basis in order to give greater transparency on the impact from the preCARDIA acquisition and to be consistent with our peers. A full reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP results are summarized in our press release and earnings deck, and are available on the Investor section of abiomed.com.R&D expense for the first quarter totaled $38 million, a 43% increase from the prior year. The increase was driven by clinical costs for PROTECT IV and STEMI DTU randomized controlled trials, as well as our investments in new products, such as ECP and BTR. We believe that clinical evidence and innovation of smaller, smarter, more connected devices will drive sustainable long-term growth.SG&A expense for the quarter totaled $103 million, an increase of $35 million, or 51% versus prior year. The year-over-year increase is driven by headcount additions to our distribution team, our direct-to-patient initiative, higher spend on training and education, and COVID-related one-time cost actions from the prior year.Non-GAAP operating income grew 94% to $66 million in the quarter, which translated to non-GAAP operating margin of 26.2%. Our margin expansion of 550 basis points was primarily due to higher volume, which more than offset our growth enhancing investments.Non-GAAP net income for the quarter was $51 million, or $1.10 per share, up 95% versus Q1 of 2021. Our year-over-year performance was driven by higher volume and a lower effective tax rate.Our balance sheet remains debt-free. And we ended the quarter with $805 million of cash and marketable securities after funding our strategic investment to acquire the remaining shares of preCARDIA.In terms of full-year guidance, keep in mind that our fiscal year experiences seasonality. Q2 is typically a slow quarter for all cardiovascular devices due to our summertime slowdown in the cath lab and physician vacations. In this summer, we believe, it is being even more exasperated based on the pent-up vacation demand from COVID last year. With that said, we expect Q2 revenue to be in line or slightly down from our Q1 record revenue performance of $253 million in our summer quarter. As we transition to the back half of the year, we typically expect to see sequential lift in Q3 based on increased hospital activity and physician engagement. And as we finish the fiscal year in Q4, our March quarter, we expect to deliver our best results.Given our strong performance in the first quarter and our confidence and our outlook, we are now raising our full-year revenue guidance and expected to be in the range of $1.03 billion to $1.05 billion, up 22% to 24% for the year. This is an increase from our original guidance range of $990 million to $1.03 billion, up 17% to 22% for the year. The low end of our guidance assumes some continued unevenness due to the Delta variant. At the high end of the range, our assumptions include a normalized procedure cadence in the cath lab, and a minimal impact from COVID based on global vaccine distribution. We expect non-GAAP operating margin to be in the 24% to 26% range.In summary, we are encouraged by our first quarter performance. We executed well and are building for the future through strategic investments in innovation, clinical evidence and commercial excellence. We are well positioned for a successful fiscal year 2022 and beyond as we continue to build the new field of heart recovery.Operator, please now open the line for questions.