  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Keysight Technologies fiscal second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. My name is Gabriel, and I will be your lead operator today. [Operator instructions] Please note that this call is being recorded today, Wednesday, May 19, 2021, at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time. I would now like to hand the conference over to John Kary, vice president, treasurer, and investor relations. Please go ahead, Mr. Kary.Jason Kary -- Vice President, Treasurer, and Investor Relations Thank you, and welcome, everyone, to Keysight's second-quarter earnings conference call for fiscal year 2021. Joining me are Ron Nersesian, Keysight's chairman, president, and CEO; and Neil Dougherty, our CFO. Joining us in the Q&A session will be Satish Dhanasekaran, chief operating officer; and Mark Wallace, senior vice president of global sales. You can find the press release and information to supplement today's discussion on our website at investor.keysight.com. While there, please click on the link for quarterly reports under the financial Information tab. There, you will find an investor presentation, along with Keysight's segment results. Following this conference call, we will post a copy of the prepared remarks to the website. Today's comments by Ron and Neil will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.We will also make references to core growth, which excludes the impact of currency movements and acquisitions or divestitures completed within the last 12 months. You will find the most directly comparable GAAP financial metrics and reconciliations on our website. All comparisons are on a year-over-year basis unless specifically noted otherwise. We will make forward-looking statements about the financial performance of the company on today's call. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are only valid as of today. The company assumes no obligation to update them. Please review the company's recent SEC filings for a more complete picture of our risks and other factors. Lastly, I would highlight that management is scheduled to participate in upcoming virtual investor conferences hosted by JPMorgan, Stifel, Baird, UBS, and Bank of America. And now I will turn the call over to Ron. Ron Nersesian -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jason, and thank you, everyone, for joining us. Keysight delivered a record quarter, and we are entering the second half of the year with momentum. Our broad portfolio of differentiated solutions continues to drive growth across a diverse set of growing markets. Today, I'll focus my comments on three key headlines. First, we delivered outstanding Q2 results with all-time record orders, revenue, and free cash flow. Second, Keysight is enabling leading-edge disruptive innovation around the world. Our solutions have significant differentiation and contribute significant value to customers, which is fueling our growth for the long term. Third, while we are managing longer lead times and component availability, our leading market position, strong customer relationships, and supply chain resiliency gives us the confidence in our ability to deliver on our commitments. Now let's take a deeper look across our second-quarter performance across both business segments. Record orders of $1.3 billion grew 22%. Revenue grew 36% to $1.2 billion, which was an all-time high. We delivered second-quarter gross margin of 64%, operating margin of 26%, and earnings of $1.44, which was above the high end of our guidance and represents 85% year-over-year earnings growth. We also achieved record free cash flow of $369 million. Over the last 12 months, Keysight generated just over $1 billion of free cash flow that we've deployed through approximately $500 million in acquisitions and $455 million in share repurchases. We continue to be active and disciplined in our capital deployment. Second-quarter strength was broad-based with double-digit order and revenue growth across all markets and regions. Outstanding results by both business segments demonstrate the power of Keysight's diversified portfolio in 5G and beyond. Our electronic industrial solutions group achieved its third consecutive quarter of record revenue with strong double-digit order and revenue growth in general electronics, semiconductor, and automotive. The breadth of our contributions across multiple industries is exemplified by our double-digit order and revenue growth in our general electronics business. With ongoing investment in broad digital transformation, including advanced consumer electronics, digital healthcare, and industrial IoT, Keysight is enabling innovation and capturing technology inflections for the IoT ecosystem. Strong demand for our semiconductor solutions drove record orders and revenue. Customer investment in advanced technology nodes remains high, while capacity is expanding for mature processes to address surging global semiconductor demands. In automotive, record orders resulted from improved macro conditions and increasing investments in EV and AV technologies. Keysight solutions portfolio for the automotive market continues to expand with new advanced technologies such as AC power emulation, millimeter wave radar, power semiconductor technology, automotive ethernet, C-V2X, and cybersecurity software systems. As the reinvention of automotive ecosystems continues, Keysight is enabling the disruptive innovation of new mobility technologies. Our communications solutions group achieved record orders and delivered double-digit order and revenue growth in commercial communications and aerospace defense and government. Aerospace, defense, and government revenue grew 46%, driven by strong demand in space, satellite, signal monitoring, 5G, and early 6G research applications. Keysight's engagement with key industry players remains strong. We recently enabled a large prime contractor's first testbed and have secured multiple 5G solutions wins in the aerospace, defense, and government markets. Commercial communications orders and revenue both grew double digits, driven by the ongoing investments in 5G and 400 gig, 800 gig Ethernet solutions for data centers. As 5G progresses and deployments drive sustained investment, we are uniquely positioned to capture the opportunities ahead as the ecosystem scales. Recent engagements include a broadening set of new customers, as well as key industry players such as NEC, Fujitsu, and MediaTek. We continue to maximize the 5G life cycle opportunity and lead the industry with differentiated 5G solutions. In addition, the success of our application layer strategy is reflected in the strong demand for new technologies such as O-RAN and business expansion in new end-to-end verticals. Our ability to provide complete solutions for network protocol test, security, and visibility is enabling us to solve many challenges across the industry. In another area of disruption, we continue to advance our long-term initiative to enable the quantum revolution. We are growing our quantum engagements with key customers worldwide. We also expanded our quantum solutions portfolio this quarter with the acquisition of Quantum Benchmark, which brings deep expertise in the performance validation software for quantum computing. Keysight's software-centric solutions in higher-value services continue to drive differentiation and recurring revenue growth. For the second quarter in a row, software and services each delivered double-digit order and revenue growth. Beyond innovation, execution, and financial discipline, Keysight's culture has long embraced corporate social responsibility. We believe our focus on climate and diversity provides us with a competitive advantage. We recently published our annual CSR report, which includes progress toward our prior goals and the announcement of our commitment to achieving net-zero emissions in the company operations by 2040. We are working to set interim science-based targets to ensure our progress toward this goal. Diversity and inclusion are also embodied in our Keysight leadership model. As a CEO priority, we have specific goals and actions that will be tracked by our leadership team and the Board of Directors. Diversity and inclusion brief will be published this month that describes our long-standing D&I philosophy, as well as the details of our strategies and goals. While there is more work to do, Keysight remains steadfast in our commitment to CSR and building a better planet. As we look ahead, we are encouraged by the strong demand for our differentiated solutions while managing the longer lead times and component availability constraints. Our in-house high-performance semiconductor fab and the strength of our order fulfillment team are helping us manage these near-term supply challenges and give us confidence in our ability to navigate them entering the second half of this year. In summary, Keysight is enabling disruptive innovation across multiple waves of technology with a decades-long runway ahead of us. Our execution in the face of many dynamic challenges this past year is a testament to the Keysight leadership model, our employees, and the breadth and depth of our customers. Now I would like to turn it over to Neil to discuss our financial performance and outlook in more detail.Neil Dougherty -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Ron, and hello, everyone. As Ron mentioned, the Keysight team delivered another outstanding quarter and better-than-expected results as robust demand for our differentiated solutions and continued macro recovery resulted in strong growth across all regions. Second-quarter revenue of $1.22 billion was above the high end of our guidance range and grew 36% or 33% on a core basis versus a soft compare due to COVID-related disruption. Q2 revenue growth was driven by broad strength across all markets and geographies as the Keysight team navigated macro-dynamics and supply chain constraints. We achieved second-quarter orders of $1.332 billion, up 22% or 19% on a core basis. Turning to our operational results for Q2. We reported gross margin of 64%, which increased 170 basis points. Operating expenses of $467 million were well managed, resulting in operating margin of 26%. As discussed last quarter, variable pay expense increased approximately $30 million sequentially as a result of higher revenue growth and operating margin. We achieved net income of $270 million and delivered $1.44 in earnings per share, which was above the high end of our guidance. Our weighted average share count for the quarter was 187 million shares. Moving to the performance of our segments. Our communications solutions group achieved second-quarter revenue of $877 million, up 34% while delivering gross margin of 65% and operating margin of 25%. Commercial communications orders and revenue in the second quarter were all-time highs. Revenue of $606 million increased 30%, driven by continued investment across the 5G life cycle. Aerospace, defense and government revenue of $271 million grew 46%, resulting from strong demand across all regions, primarily in the U.S. and Asia Pacific, followed by a strong recovery in Europe. The electronic industrial solutions group generated record revenue of $344 million, up 42% or 37% on a core basis. Order and revenue strength was notable across all regions, particularly in Asia Pacific. Semiconductor, general electronics measurement, and automotive solutions orders and revenue all grew strong double digit. EISG reported gross margin of 64% and operating margin of 28%. Moving to the balance sheet and cash flow. We ended our second quarter with approximately $2 billion in cash and cash equivalents and reported cash flow from operations of $402 million and free cash flow of $369 million or 30% of revenue. Our capital allocation priorities are unchanged and are focused on investments in organic growth, value-creating acquisitions, and share repurchases. Under our share repurchase authorization during the quarter, we acquired 1.59 million shares on the open market at an average price of $138.36 for a total consideration of $220 million. Now turning to our outlook and guidance. We expect third-quarter 2021 revenue to be in the range of $1.205 billion to $1.225 billion, which represents 20% revenue growth at the midpoint. We expect Q3 earnings per share to be in the range of $1.39 to $1.45 based on a weighted diluted share count of approximately 187 million shares. In closing, we are entering the second half of the year with strong momentum. We are pleased with our operational execution and remain confident in our ability to drive growth and deliver on our commitments. With that, I will now turn it back to Jason for the Q&A.Jason Kary -- Vice President, Treasurer, and Investor Relations Thank you, Neil. Gabriel, will you please give the instructions for the Q&A? 