  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Erica, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome you to the Ford Motor Company third-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Lynn Antipas Tyson, executive director of investor relations.Lynn Antipas Tyson -- Executive Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Erica. Welcome to Ford Motor Company's third-quarter 2021 earnings call. With me today are Jim Farley, president and CEO; and John Lawler, our chief financial officer. Also joining us for Q&A is Marion Harris, CEO of Ford Credit. Today's discussions include some non-GAAP references. These are reconciled to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measures in the appendix of our earnings deck. You can find the deck, along with the rest of our earnings materials and other important content, at shareholder.ford.com, including some updated videos and proof points around our Ford+ plan for growth.Today's discussion also includes forward-looking statements about our expectations. Actual results may differ from those stated. The most significant factors that could cause actual results to differ are included on Page 23. Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons are year over year. Company EBIT, EPS, and free cash flow are on an adjusted basis. Product mix is volume weighted. A quick update on our IR events for the balance of the year. We have five.

 



 On Monday, the 1st, November 1, Wolfe will host a fireside chat with John Lawler and Hau Thai-Tang, our chief product platform and operations officer. On the 18th of November, Barclays will host a virtual fireside chat with Ted Cannis, our CEO of Ford Pro. In December, on the 3rd, Goldman Sachs will host a virtual fireside chat with Lisa Drake, our chief operating officer for North America. On the 3rd, Credit Suisse will host a fireside chat with Hau Thai-Tang. And finally, on the 9th, Deutsche Bank will host a virtual fireside chat with Alex Purdy, our director of business operations, enterprise connectivity. Now, I'll turn the call over to Jim Farley. Jim Farley -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Lynn. Hello, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. Well, this month marks one year since we began executing our Ford+ plan. It creates growth, value, and it allows us to win in emerging area of electric and connected vehicles.

 



 We built a strong team that combines top leaders from Ford, with world-class talent recruited from outside of our company, specific talent, specific people that are largely outside of our industry. This leadership team is committed to this plan, and we're accelerating our progress. Now, Ford+ is not a tag line. It's not advertising. It's a larger, more ambitious way to think about our business and how we bring value to our customers. We're creating iconic and distinctive products that only Ford can do, increasingly always-on relationships with our customers and ever-improving user experiences, all while creating value for our shareholders. We're fully vested in this future, and we're taking big swings. Key to the plan is harnessing the power of connectivity. We're designing a new generation of fully networked vehicles, not delegated to our supply chain, but done inside the company to revolutionize the experience of owning and operating Ford vehicle. That's embedded technology to unleash unlimited innovation. We're scaling the number of vehicles capable of over their updates. We'll be moving from 1 million vehicles today to 33 million by 2028. That's scale. At the same time, we're moving aggressively to lead the electric vehicle revolution, substantially expanding our battery production as we speak today in the U.S. In fact, we already announced plans that will give us enough battery production to meet our mid-decade goal of 141 gigawatts, which is enough to build more than 1 million battery electric vehicles a year, and I think we'll need more. Our $7 billion investment in BlueOval City in Tennessee and the BlueOval SK Battery Park in Kentucky sets a new standard for scale, sustainability, advanced manufacturing, and training the next generation of technology leaders. At the same time, the $1 billion of investment in our electrified center in Cologne, Germany will allow us to go all electric soon. That center will be all electric by 2023. We're making final preparations to launch the F-150 Lightning, the defining zero-emission version of America's best-selling vehicle for the past 40-plus years. Our all-electric Mustang Mach-E is a hit with customers, not just in the U.S., but around the world, bringing a stunning number of new customers to the Ford brand. Over 90% of the Mach-E owners say they would recommend a Mach-E to other customers, critical as a new generation of battery electric customers make new brand choices. Our challenge now is to break production constraints and increase availability to meet this incredible demand both in North America and in Europe and also in China, the biggest EV market in the world where we are just starting production of Mach-E. We believe the global demand just for Mustang Mach-E could approach about 200,000 vehicles a year. We've created new organization, Ford Pro, to change and power the future work with compelling commercial vehicles, distribution, and services, while growing revenues to Ford. In the few weeks, we will start production of the new E-Transit, an electric version of the world's best-selling commercial van. And in the third quarter alone, FORDLiive, Europe's new connected uptime center, which I wish you could all see for our commercial customers, helps customers in the U.K. secure additional uptime, preventing about $8 million of lost revenue and associated costs for our valuable customers. We're reinventing icons like Bronco and creating new ones like Maverick. In fact, the all-new Maverick, 42 miles per gallon, I might add, is the first standard hybrid pickup in the United States. It's also America's most fuel-efficient hybrid pickup. This is the strongest, most compelling lineup I've ever seen from any mass-market brand in my career. And we are creating a spring-loaded future as we emerge from the chip shortages and COVID constraints, and we continue to make important strides in the technology and go-to-market strategy for autonomous vehicles. In the second quarter, we told you about a new partnership with Argo AI and Lyft. And in the third quarter, we announced a new partnership with Argo AI and Walmart. This is Walmart's first-ever multicity autonomous delivery service, and it will be anchored in cities where we already have operations, not the easiest miles in one city, but multiple cities and hard miles. In addition to making real progress on autonomy vehicles, operating domains, SDS, we fully support Argo AI's aspiration to access public capital. To build this future and generate the margins and cash flow we need to fund Ford+, we had to turn around our automotive operations and improve our competitiveness. Our results in the third quarter show we are making significant progress. In fact, companywide, we achieved an 8.4% EBIT margin, including 10.1% in North America. Those margins, I'll remind you, are in line with our targets for 2023. More importantly, our operations outside of North America are likely to post their best performance in four years. Please note the performance in South America, largely driven by our success of our global redesign. We've been able to achieve this while thoughtfully managing our supply chain for short-term sustainable improvements, including semiconductors, and prioritizing high-demand and high-profit vehicles. Now before I turn it over to John, a few thoughts. I believe we have the right plan to drive growth and unlock unprecedented value. You are already seeing a favorable change in the slope of our earnings and cash flow. There is more to come. Given the strength of our business this year, we are increasing our full-year adjusted EBIT guidance to between $10.5 billion and $11.5 billion. As we plan in earnest for next year, we're excited and energized about the opportunity in front of us and clear that we have so much more work to do to deliver on Ford's potential. The word I would leave you with is focus. The competitive environment has never been more interesting and tough, and we intend to live up to our promise to compete like a challenger, focusing on our top priorities to unlock Ford+ growth with customers at the very center of everything we do. Now I'll turn it over to John, who will take you through our results for the quarter, our outlook for the full year, our capital allocation priorities, and our expectations heading into next year. John?John Lawler -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jim. Now in the face of continued industrywide semiconductor constraints, we stayed focused on our plan, strengthening our portfolio and investing in opportunities fundamental to growth and value creation. We delivered a solid quarter with $3 billion in adjusted company EBIT and a margin of 8.4%. Free cash flow of $7.7 billion was, as we expected, up sharply on a sequential basis driven by the positive working capital effects from higher wholesale and EBIT. We ended the quarter with strong cash and liquidity at over $31 billion and $47 billion, respectively. Now across our automotive business, our playbook remained consistent as we optimize production for customer orders, new launches, and our most profitable vehicles. And as expected, on a sequential basis, our wholesales improved dramatically as chip supply for Ford improved. We also remain disciplined with incentive spending and mix management, which, on a year-over-year basis, more than offset chip-related declines in volume. Ford Credit delivered another solid quarter with $1.1 billion in EBT as auction values continue to remain strong and credit losses continue at near-record lows. For the fourth quarter, we're assuming a sequential increase in wholesale. We also expect continued healthy mix and net pricing and solid results from Ford Credit, although not as strong as the third quarter. Headwinds include inflationary impacts on commodities and freight, and we also expect planned sequential increases in our Ford+ modernization investments, including customer experience and IT. So let me share with you some highlights from the quarter before I turn to guidance, capital allocation, and our preliminary view of 2022. With improved chip supply, North America wholesales increased sequentially by 67% as the team prioritized launches, customer orders, and high-margin units while reducing the number of vehicles built but waiting for chips. Demand remains strong for our exciting vehicles. The order bank we are building paid off in the third quarter, representing 28% of our retail sales in the third quarter and reaching a high of 31% in September. And our overall customer orders increased over 50% from the second quarter to more than 100,000 orders, excluding Bronco. With a 10.1% EBIT margin in the quarter, North America is now at a 9% margin year to date, just 100 basis points shy of our 2023 target of 10%. South America marked its eighth consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement in EBIT, and the business run rate is now approaching breakeven. The region also launched its new commercial vehicle organization with the introduction of the new Transit, which is manufactured in Uruguay. This Transit is the first light commercial van to market in Brazil that includes connectivity as a standard feature. In Europe, the underlying trajectory of our business continues to strengthen, though the adverse impact from chips has masked this improvement. In the third quarter, the business lost about 50,000 units, which would have had a substantial favorable impact on EBIT. Our leadership as the No. 1 commercial vehicle brand continued in the quarter, along with an extremely robust order bank. In China, Lincoln continues to perform well, extending its success in the most profitable segment luxury. With retail sales up 24% year over year, in fact, Lincoln has doubled its share of the China luxury market over the past 18 months. Our newly created BEV organization to open its first 13 direct-to-consumer Ford Select city stores, with a total of 25 expected to open by year-end. In IMG, our leadership team in India made the difficult decision to end manufacturing following accumulated operating losses of more than $2 billion over the past 10 years. Going forward, we will focus on importing iconic vehicles, including EVs. And overall, IMG had a solid quarter, capitalizing on our strengths, including Ranger. Now as Jim highlighted, the underlying strength of our business supports increasing our adjusted EBIT guidance for 2021 to between $10.5 billion and $11.5 billion, and that's despite a lower-than-anticipated improvement in chip availability in the second half of the year. Consistent with our adjusted EBIT guidance through this year, our updated guidance for 2021 includes the $900 million noncash gain on our investment in Rivian in our first-quarter adjusted results. So let me spend a minute on Rivian. Now in the event that Rivian completes its IPO, we will record any gain on our investment in any subsequent adjustments as special items. Accordingly, we will recast the $900 million noncash gain from adjusted EBIT in the first quarter to a special item. If Rivian completes their IPO in the fourth quarter, we will make this change when we report our fourth-quarter earnings on February 3, 2022. Our guidance for 2021 adjusted free cash flow is unchanged at $4 billion to $5 billion, reflecting the higher EBIT, but less favorable improvement in working capital and timing difference -- timing differences. Now, this is due to lower-than-anticipated volumes than previously assumed in the back half of the quarter, and that's as a result of chip constraints. We do expect free cash flow to increase with higher production and the associated improvement in supplier payables and other timing differences. So now let me turn to capital allocation, which again is the foundation of our value creation framework. Our capital allocation discipline is driving a strong core business and balance sheet that provides the flexibility to invest in new growth opportunities as we deliver our Ford+ plan. Ultimately, it ensures we return value to our shareholders, both in the form of a higher share price and dividends. Today, we announced the reinstatement of our dividend. Our board has approved restarting a regular quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share in the fourth quarter of 2021. Importantly, the dividend reflects our confidence in the improving run rate of the business and our ability to fund all of our calls on capital, including the growing investment in electrification and the trajectory of our Ford+ plan. The dividend was also sized to ensure we maintain appropriate optionality to manage continued uncertainties in the external environment. To give you a better sense of our calls on capital between 2020 and 2025, we expect total capital expenditures of about $40 billion to $45 billion or a run rate of roughly $7 billion per year. Now over the same time, we expect to invest over $30 billion in BEVs. And of the investment in BEVs, about 50% is capex, 25% is expense and 25% is direct investments. And these numbers, they'll be dynamic, and we are confident we have ample financial flexibility to increase our investment, even if BEV adoption further accelerates. Now let me share with you our early thinking about 2022, a year, which, like this one, is likely to experience some industry crosswinds that could drive a range of outcomes. Now we typically don't talk about the upcoming year this soon, and we're not yet prepared to give financial guidance, but we do want to share how we're thinking about next year, given the dynamic operating environment. Ford's underlying strengths give me great confidence we can build on our results in 2021. First, our portfolio of products and services is exceptional, and we have a significant amount of new product coming to market spanning our iconic high-volume nameplates. Second, our industrial base gives us significant optionality as the adoption of electric vehicles accelerates. Third, driven by the chip shortage to roughly $4 million in wholesales we are likely to deliver this year fall significantly below our capacity. And based on our current assessment, we believe our wholesales could be up about 10% in 2022, but that number is very dynamic and changes almost weekly. And fourth, the effects of our global redesign, which is largely completed, are now evident and substantial. We have drastically de-risked and rationalized our global footprint and product lineup, vastly improving our earnings and cash generation power in the process. Now for headwinds next year, it's difficult to predict the interplay between semiconductor-related constraints, volume, and pricing, and this will continue to remain dynamic. For 2021, we expect commodities to be up $3 billion to $3.5 billion, and they could be up another $1.5 billion in 2022, largely driven by steel and aluminum similar to this year. There will also likely be other inflationary costs, but it's too early to size that right now. Ford Credit is likely to be lower as strong auction values will be moderated by a smaller inventory of vehicles and lower lease and return rates. And lastly, we're obviously going to continue to invest in our Ford+ plan for growth and value creation, and this includes in customer-facing technology, connectivity, our always-on relationships with customers, and electrification. And of course, we believe the long-term payback from those investments will be substantial. Now that wraps up our prepared remarks. And if you perceive that the upfront portion of these calls is becoming more efficient, well, you're right. And that's a function of us being very specific with you and our team about what's truly important and our confidence in executing effectively against those things and reporting, accordingly. We'll use the balance of the time to hear and address what's on your minds. Thank you. 