
OperatorHello. Welcome to the Rand Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Harry and I'll be your operator today. [Operator Instructions]. I will now hand the call over to your host, Chris Miorin, Vice President of Investor Relations. Chris, please go ahead now.Chris Miorin -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you, and welcome to the Ingersoll Rand 2021, Third Quarter Earnings Call. I'm Chris Miorin, Vice President of Investor Relations, and joining me are Vicente Reynal, President and Chief Executive Officer and Vik Kini, Chief Financial Officer. We issued our earnings release and presentation yesterday, and we will reference these during the call. Both are available on the Investor Relations section of our website In addition, a replay of this conference call will be available later today. Before we start, I want to remind everyone that certain statements on this call are forward-looking in nature and are subject to the risks and uncertainties discussed in our previous SEC filings, which you should read in conjunction with the information provided on this call.

 



Please review the forward-looking statements on slide two for more details. In addition, in today's remarks, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. You can find a reconciliation of these measures to the most comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in our slide presentation and in our earnings release, both of which are available on the Investor Relations section of our website. On today's call, we will provide a Company strategy update, review our Company and segment financial highlights, and offer updated 2021 guidance. For today's Q&A session, we ask that each caller keep to 1 question and 1 follow-up to allow time for other participants. At this time, I will turn the call over to Vicente.Vicente Reynal -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Chris. And good morning to everyone. Starting on slide three, coming out of the third quarter, Ingersoll Rand remains in a position of strength. Demonstrating again that, as a purpose-driven Company, we remain grounded in what we do and how we do it. In the environment, we find ourselves in right now, our agility, our nimbleness and using IRX for speed to execution has proven to be our competitive advantage. Of course, global micro-economic factors continue to be a challenge. We're not immune to demand in supply chain inflation and labor market conditions, but we continue to outperform on our commercial and operational commitments, and we are again raising our guidance. This out-performance is propelled by continued organic and inorganic investments into the organization. And our comprehensive M&A focused capital allocation strategy is fueled by our drive to create long-term value and compound stockholder returns.Moving to slide four, we remain committed to our 5 strategic imperatives, and we'll focus our remarks today on our growth and capital allocation strategies. Before we move to those, I have 2 important call outs. Our strategy to deploy talent across our organization is paying off. We just concluded our second employee engagement survey this year, across all 16,000 employees globally. And I am extremely proud to share, we had outstanding participation at 91% and several of our scores improved again, placing us well above the relevant manufacturing benchmarks in results and participation. In fact, on responses to how happy are you working at Ingersoll Rand we now rank in the top 10% of manufacturing organizations. When we talk about our performance because of our agility, nimbleness, and IRX, it's because of our people.

 



This is our culture. We always say and continue to believe that the combination of a highly engaged workforce coupled with an ownership mindset is a catalyst for long-term performance. The fact that, our voluntary turnover is less than 3%, even in this challenging environment also speaks highly of the culture we're nurturing and how we inspire our employees. I want to take a moment to acknowledge and thank the tremendous contributions of each and every one of our 16,000 employees. Without them, these results will not be possible.Our Operate Sustainably strategic imperative, also highlights the speed at which our Company moves. In less than 18 months, we have been upgraded twice by MSCI,and we sit now at a rating of A. This is an improvement from approximately the bottom 1/3 to now, being in the top 1/3 of the companies rated by MSCI. We believe, based on our work, we will continue to see our ratings improve with the various ESG rating providers. Great strides have been made this year to accelerate growth and allocate capital effectively.As we have announced or deployed approximately 1 billion toward M&A. In Q3, we completed both the Seepex and Maximus Solutions acquisitions and announced Air Dimension acquisition, last week. We also announced an agreement to acquire Tuthill Pumps earlier this week. We shared our comprehensive capital allocation strategy with you earlier in September. Along with our focus on M&A, we completed a large share repurchase as part of KKR sale of their final equity stake in the Company, as well as the prepayment of the more expensive trench of debt taken out last year during the onset of COVID.And in addition, we initiated a quarterly dividend that began in Q4 and a new board authorized $750 million share repurchase program. On the next slide, it's a partial preview of what's to come at our November 18th Virtual Investor Day, where we look forward to talking in more detail about the mega trends. We and our customers are seeking to address in how Ingersoll Rand products and services help make life better for all our stakeholders. Our strategy enables all to compound our contribution to address in Megatrends, such as Digitization, Sustainability, and Quality of Life through organic growth enablers, where we have specific advantages.

 



For example, we continue to leverage our own unique and proprietary demand generation engine to drive a holistic approach to customer buying patterns. One that has already captured over three million end-user contents and allows us to generate over 200,000 marketing qualified leads per year. We also continued to invest in our industrial IoT platform. As we aim to connect or digitally enable a meaningful portion of the $5 million assets that we have identified in the field. Moving to slide six, we're not unique in needing to effectively manage the challenges of the current supply chain environment. However, our key differentiator is our ability to respond with agility and discipline through the use of IRX to quickly and effectively minimize negative impacts from challenging supply chain conditions.I would like to especially thank our global sourcing and logistics team at Ingersoll Rand, as well as our factory buyers and planners for their tireless efforts in creative thinking using data back analytics to overcome delivery gaps. We saw very early on that supply chain and logistics challenges were going to be an important issue. So we invested in this area to guarantee that we have rigorous processes and capabilities in place to succeed. This has produced outstanding results. Moving to slide seven, we will now look more closely at our recent inorganic achievements. We signed definitive agreements to acquire Tuthill Pumps, which is expected to close in Q4. And Air Dimensions, both of which will become part of the precision and science technology segment.We also closed acquisition of Lawrence Factor, which will become part of the Industrial Technology and Service segment. These three acquisitions are representative of the key characteristics we're targeting with our inorganic growth strategy. Tuthill Pump, is the second asset we have purchased from Tuthill Corporation.It is a leader in the gear and piston pumping market. Which supports the expansion of our positive displacement pump portfolio. This is another example of a multi-generation family owned Company, with premium assets that approached us on an exclusive basis because of the relationship that we have built and the opportunities they saw for their Company and employees, as part of the Ingersoll Rand family. This is another testament to how our unique approach to employee ownership allows us to be at the frontlines in M&A. Air Dimension, is a market leader in gas diaphragm pumps, which is complementary to our existing Lab and Life Science businesses, and is specialized for environmental applications like emission monitoring and bio-gas.It has an impressive pre -synergy EBITDA margins of over 50%. And more than 70% of its revenue comes from, like-to-like replacement of original equipment and aftermarket parts. We also closed acquisition of Lawrence Factor, which will reside in the IPS segment. Lawrence Factor, is a great example of an acquisition that is well aligned with our Company purpose of making lives better. As our technology ensures safe work and play activities for people who depend on compressed air and gas, through their proprietary air sampling and aftermarket offerings. All three of these acquisitions were valued on attractive purchase multiple, and our synergy execution is expected to deliver mid-single-digit post-synergy realization by year three, in line with our disciplined pre -deal screening process. I will now turn the presentation over to Vik to provide an update on our Q3 financial performance.Vik Kini -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks Vicente. Moving to slide eight, we continue to be pleased with the performance of the Company in Q3, which saw a strong balance of commercial and operational execution, fueled by the use of IRX to overcome a challenging inflationary and supply chain constrained environment. Our commitment to deliver $300 million in cost synergy, attributable to the Ingersoll Rand industrial segment acquisition remains intact, as we continue to drive performance on productivity and synergy initiatives using IRX as the catalyst.Total Company orders and revenue increased 37% and 19% year-over-year, respectively, driven by strong double-digit organic orders growth across each segment. Compared to 2019 as-reported orders in Q3 were up 27%, and 16% on a quarter-to-date and year-to-date basis, respectively, highlighting the strong performance of our business irrespective of the COVID impacted 2020. Our orders and revenue in the quarter were records for the Company eclipsing Q2 and setting us up well, as we move into Q4.The Company delivered third-quarter adjusted EBITDA $314 million, a year-over-year improvement of $62 million, and adjusted EBITDA margins of 23.7%, a 110 basis point improvement year-over-year. Adjusted free cash flow for the quarter was $307 million, after taking into account the unique items as pointed out on the slide. Total liquidity of $3.1 billion at quarter-end was up approximately $0.7 billion from prior year. This now takes our net leverage to 1.3 times, a 1.2 times improvement from prior year. Turning to slide nine for the total Company orders increased 33% and revenue increased 17%, both on an FX adjusted basis. Overall, we post a strong book-to-bill of 1.13x for the quarter.We remain encouraged by the strength of our backlog moving into Q4, which is up approximately 40% from the end of 2020, The ITS and PST segments both saw year-over-year improvement in adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA margin on ITS improved a 150 basis points. While the PST segment margin declined 100 basis points driven by the impact of the SEEPEX and Maximus Solutions acquisitions, both of which closed in Q3. When adjusted to exclude the impact of the SEEPEX in Maximus acquisitions, PST margins increased by 20 basis points. Finally, corporate cost came in at $35 million for the quarter. Up year-over-year, primarily due to higher incentive compensation costs, as well as targeted commercial growth investments in areas like, demand-generation.We expect corporate cost to remain elevated at comparable levels in Q4 due to the same drivers. One other item of note is the adjusted tax rate which came in at 10% for the quarter and stands at 15% on a year-to-date basis. The adjusted rate is benefiting from our tax restructuring efforts that we've outlined before and specifically a few nonrecurring impacts driven by our movement of IP and implementation of a royalty structure, as well as the utilization of carry-forward foreign tax credits. As a result, we do expect the adjusted rate for the year to be in the mid-teens. But as we look ahead to 2022, we would expect the rate to be back in the low 20s due to the non-repeat of some of these items.Turning to Slide 10. Free cash flow for the quarter with $131 million on a continuing ops basis driven by strong operational performance across the business and prudent working capital management. capex during the quarter totaled $15 million and free cash flow included $6 million of synergy and stand-up outflows related to the IR merger. In addition, free cash flow also included $220 million in cash tax payments related to the capital gains realized due to the divestitures of the HPS and SVT segments. Finally, free cash flow also included a $49 million payment from Trane Technologies for post-closing adjustments related to the IR merger. Excluding these three items, adjusted free cash flow was $307 million. Leverage for the quarter was 1.3 times, which was up 1.2 times improvement as compared to prior year. Total Company liquidity now stands at $3.1 billion based on approximately $2 billion of cash, and over $1 billion of availability on our revolving credit facility.Liquidity decreased by $1.6 billion in the quarter as we executed our capital allocation strategy by buying back $731 million in shares as part of KKR sale of the remaining equity stake, strategically deployed nearly $600 million to M&A and prepaid approximately $400 million in debt, to remove the tranche of debt taken out during the onset of COVID-19, which carried a higher interest rate. We maintain considerable balance sheet flexibility to continue our portfolio transformation strategy through M&A, coupled with targeted internal investment to drive sustainable organic growth. I will now turn it back to Vicente to discuss the segments.Vicente Reynal -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Vik. Moving to Slide 11 in our Industrial Technology and Service segment, revenue was up 14%. The team delivered strong adjusted EBITDA up 26% year-over-year, and an adjusted EBITDA margin of 25.5%, up 150 basis points year-over-year, with an incremental margin of 33%. Organic orders were up 31% Starting with compressors, we saw orders up in the high 30%, a further breakdown into oil-free and oil-lubricated products shows orders were oil-free up over 50% and oil lubricated up over 30%. In the Americas, orders in North America were up mid-20s, while Latin America was up high 40s. Mainline Europe delivered strong performance of high 40s, while India and Middle East, so continued strong recovery with order rates up in excess of 70%. Asia-Pacific continues to perform well with orders up high 30s, driven by strong mid-50% growth in China, and mid-single-digit decline across the rest of Asia-Pacific.In banking blowers, always were up low 30s on a global basis with strong double-digit growth across each of our regions. Moving next to power tools and lifting, orders for the total business were up mid 20s and so, continued positive growth driven mainly by our enhanced e-commerce capabilities and improve execution on new product launches. We will also like to highlight one of the many ways that, we enable our customers to become more sustainable. Our LeROI gas compressors are used to capture bio-gas immediate from landfills, dairy farms, and wastewater facilities.As the gas is emitted, the system captures the gas, cleaning the methane from other gases such as, hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide. And our LeROI product compresses the methane for reinjection into pipelines or storage for power generation, both of which enabled the customer to capture additional economic value. The compressor enables to capture up to 50% of the emitted bio-gas. Whereas without it, 100% of the gas will be released into the atmosphere. Our significant into base of 25,000 units will help capture 240 million cubic feet of bio-gas in the next two years.Technology such as these across our portfolio enable us to advance our ESG impact not only with the steps we're taking internally to reduce our carbon footprint, water, and energy usage, but also create significant value for our customers from both sustainability and economic perspectives. Moving to Slide 12, and the Precision and Science Technology segment, revenue was up 10% organically, which remains encouraging given the tough comps due to COVID-related orders and revenue in Q3 of 2020 for the medical business. Additionally, the PST team delivers strong adjusted EBITDA of $76 million which was up 17%. Adjusted EBITDA margin was, 29.7% down 100 basis points year-over-year, driven by the impact of SEEPEX and Maximus Solutions.And again, the segment was up 20 basis points, excluding the impact of those acquisitions. Overall, organic orders were up 25% driven by the ARO and Milton Roy product lines and the Medical and Dosatron businesses which serve Lab, life sciences, water, and animal health and markets. All of these businesses were up double-digits in the quarter. Incremental margins were up 25% as reported, and 33% when excluding SEEPEX and Maximus. In this segment we would like to highlight the momentum our Haskell hydrogen solution business continues to build to making life better through a more sustainable world. We have announced a long-term agreement with Hiringa Refueling to supply high capacity hydrogen refueling stations for a nationwide green hydrogen network across New Zealand.Hiringa, has played the first order of 4 stations, with a total commitment of 24 stations to be provided through 2026. The totality of these frame agreement alone, will double our Haskel hydrogen refueling business on a revenue basis. We're incredibly excited about this partnership. And as we spoke about last quarter, the investments we're making to expand our technologies and manufacturing capabilities in these high-growth market s are producing meaningful growth. Moving to Slide 13, given the Company's performance in Q3 and continued strong outlook, we're increasing guidance for 2021. Our guidance excludes both the divested high-pressure Solutions and Specialty Vehicle technology segments, as well as the pending acquisition Tuthill Pumps. However, Sypex, Maximus Solutions, Air Dimensions, and Lawrence Factor are included in our guidance.Our prior revenue guidance was up mid-teens on a reported basis, comprised of low double-digit organic growth across both of our segments. We're now guiding up high-teens in total with low double-digit growth. organic growth across both segments. This reflects an approximately 100 basis point increase in organic growth for the total Company as compared to prior guidance. FX, is expected to continue to be low single-digit tailwind. M&A was previously expected to contribute approximately $60 million in revenue. But given the closed acquisition of Maximus, Seepex, Air Dimensions, and Lawrence Factor, we're increasing that expected contribution to a $135 million. Based on these revenue assumptions, we're increasing 2021 adjusted EBITDA guidance to $1.175 billion to $1.195 billion which represents a $20 million improvement from prior guidance at the midpoint of the range.In terms of cash generation, we expect adjusted free cash flow to adjusted Net Income conversion to remain greater than or equal to a 100%. capex is expected to be approximately 1.5% of revenues. And finally, we expect our adjusted tax rate for the year to be in the mid-teens for the reasons Vik provided earlier. Turning to Slide 14, we're very excited about our upcoming Virtual Investor Day, which is fast approaching and will be held on November 18. We look forward to outlining our long-term growth strategy fueled by alignment with Megatrends and compounded by our unique organic growth enablers. We will provide detail on our markets and technologies, and further discuss how our strong talent, operational execution, demand generation, and M&A capabilities, coupled with a sustainable growth mindset creates incredible competitive advantages for our Company.We will also outline future financial targets. You can register for the event using the link on Slide 14 and I look forward to seeing many of you on the webcast. Moving to Slide 15, as we wrap up today's call, I want to reiterate that Ingersoll Rand is in an outstanding position. 2021 is poised to be a great year, despite the challenging environment. To our employees, I want to again say thank you for your relentless efforts to execute and solve tough problems throughout the quarter.They are absolutely appreciated. It is apparent in our Company's performance. We are actively investing to deliver outpaced growth, both organically and through M&A, to continue increase in the quality of our portfolio. We continue to take our role as a sustainability minded industry leader very serious. And our employees eagerly embraced IRX that puts us in that leadership position. We're proud of the transformation we have achieved at Ingersoll Rand and are excited about the future opportunity to compound growth and deliver increased value to all of our shareholders. With that, I'll turn the call back to the Operator and open for Q&A.