  OperatorHello, and welcome to the first quarter earnings conference call for Amphenol Corporation. Following today's presentation, there will be a formal question-and-answer session. Until then, all lines will remain in a listen-only mode. At the request of the company, today's conference is being recorded. If anyone has any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to introduce today's conference host, Mr. Craig Lampo. Sir, you may begin.Craig Lampo -- Chief Financial Officer Good afternoon, everyone. This is Craig Lampo, Amphenol's CFO, and I'm here together with Adam Norwitt, our CEO. We would like to welcome you to our first quarter 2022 conference call. Our first quarter results were released this morning. I will provide some financial commentary, and then Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends. Then we will take questions. As a reminder, during the call, we may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures and make certain forward-looking statements, so please refer to the relevant disclosures in our press release for further information. In addition, as previously announced, effective January 1, 2022, we aligned our businesses into three new reportable segments.Effective for the first quarter of 2022, we are reporting results for these new segments, as well as the relevant comparable historical financial data. The company closed the first quarter with sales of $2.952 billion and GAAP and adjusted diluted EPS of $0.68 and $0.67, respectively. First quarter sales were up 24% in U.S. dollars, 25% in local currencies, and 17% organically compared to the first quarter of 2021. The significant sales increase was driven by double-digit organic growth in the IT data communications, commercial air, industrial, automotive, and broadband markets, as well as contributions from the company's acquisition program. Sequentially, sales were down by just 2% in U.S. dollars and in local currencies and down 4% organically. Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes. Orders for the quarter were a record $3.441 billion, which is up 26% compared to the first quarter of 2021, and up 5% sequentially, resulting in a strong book-to-bill ratio of 1.17-to-1. GAAP and adjusted operating income was $590 million in the first quarter. And operating margin was a strong 20% in the first quarter of 2022, which increased by 40 basis points compared to the prior-year quarter. Sequentially, adjusted operating margins declined by only 10 basis points, which is significantly better than we typically see in the first quarter. The year-over-year increase in operating margin was primarily driven by normal operating leverage on higher sales volumes, as well as the benefit of ongoing pricing actions. These benefits were partially offset by the impact of a more challenging commodity and supply chain environment, together with the slight margin dilution of acquisitions completed over the past year. On a sequential basis, the slight decrease in adjusted operating margin reflected a normal conversion on the lower sales volumes, slightly offset by the benefit of ongoing pricing actions, which became effective in the quarter. Given the dynamic overall cost and supply chain environment, we are very proud of the company's operating performance. Our team's ability to effectively manage through the myriad of challenges around the world is a direct result of the strength of the company's entrepreneurial culture, which continues to foster a high-performance, action-oriented management team. GAAP diluted EPS was $0.68 in the first quarter, an increase of 28% compared to $0.53 in the prior-year period, and adjusted diluted EPS was $0.67, an increase of 29% compared to the $0.52 in the first quarter of 2021. This was an excellent result, especially considering the significant cost, supply chain, and other operational challenges the company continued to face during the quarter. The company's GAAP effective tax rate for the first quarter was 23.8% and the adjusted effective tax rate was 24.5%, which compared to 23.9% and 24.5% in the first quarter of 2021, respectively. Bringing down first quarter results into our three new segments. Relative to the first quarter of 2021, sales in the harsh environment solutions segment were $728 million and increased 16% in U.S. dollars and organically. Operating margins in the quarter for the segment was 25.2%. Sales in the communications solutions segment was $3 billion -- sorry, $1.320 billion and increased 28% in U.S. dollars and 21% organically. Operating margin in the quarter for the segment was 21.4%. Sales in the Interconnect and Sensor Systems segment were $904 million and increased 25% in U.S. dollars and 13% organically. And operating margin in the quarter for the segment was 17.7%. Operating cash flow in the first quarter was $351 million or 83% of adjusted net income. Net of capital spending, our free cash flow was $274 million or 65% of adjusted net income. Cash flow in the quarter was a bit lower than we would normally expect, even in a typically weaker first quarter, primarily due to a higher-than-normal increase in inventory levels, driven by the continued challenging supply chain environment. From a working capital standpoint, days sales outstanding and payable days were 74 and 57 days, respectively, both within a normal range. Inventory days were 88, which are slightly elevated due to the normal Q1 seasonality, as well as the challenging supply chain reasons just mentioned. Our management teams are focused on reducing these inventory levels, although, given the challenging environment, this may take a couple of quarters. During the quarter, the company repurchased 2.6 million shares of common stock at an average price of $78. And when combined with our normal quarterly dividend, total capital returned to shareholders in the first quarter of 2022 was more than $320 million. Total debt at March 31 was $4.9 billion, and net debt was $3.6 billion. And total liquidity at the end of the quarter was $2.9 billion, which included cash and short-term investments on hand of $1.3 billion-plus availability under existing credit facilities. First quarter 2022 GAAP EBITDA was $699 million. And at the end of the first quarter of 2020, our net leverage ratio is 1.3 times. I will now turn the call over to Adam, who will provide some commentary on current market trends. Adam Norwitt -- Chief Executive Officer Well, thank you very much, Craig, and it's my pleasure also to welcome everybody here for our first quarter earnings call. And first and foremost, I hope that everybody here today, together with your family, friends, and colleagues are managing to stay safe and healthy as the world comes to some degree of normalcy. Again, I also wanted to just offer our thoughts to the people of Ukraine, who are obviously going through this very difficult time period with the unfortunate war. While we don't have operations in the Ukraine, we do have many employees of Ukrainian descent, and our hearts are clearly with them together with their families and friends. As Craig mentioned, we wanted to highlight or I'm going to highlight some of our first quarter achievements. I'll then spend a few moments to discuss our trends and our progress across our served markets. And then finally, I'm going to comment on our outlook for the second quarter. And of course, we'll then have time for questions at the end. As Craig mentioned, we drove results in the first quarter that were substantially beyond our original expectations, exceeding the high end of our guidance in sales, as well as adjusted diluted earnings per share. Sales grew a very strong 24% in U.S. dollars and 25% in local currencies, reaching $2.952 billion. And on an organic sale -- on an organic basis, our sales increased by 17% with growth across nearly all of our end markets, and that was driven particularly by double-digit growth in the IT datacom, commercial air, industrial, automotive, and broadband markets and I'll talk about each of those in a few moments. The company booked a record $3.441 billion in orders in the first quarter, and this represented another very strong book-to-bill this time 1.17-to-1. And despite continuing to face substantial inflationary pressures and supply chain disruptions, our operating margins reached 20% in the quarter, which was a 40-basis-point increase from last year's levels. We're very encouraged by the strong profitability performance for the company, and we see that as a clear sign that our local management teams are successfully managing through this challenging cost environment. Diluted EPS in the quarter grew a robust 29% from prior year to $0.67, again, an excellent reflection of our continued strong execution. The company also generated strong operating and free cash flow in the quarter of $351 million and $274 million, and that's despite all of the challenges that Craig alluded to. And again, another clear reflection of the high quality of the company's earnings. I'm just very proud of our team this quarter. These results, once again, reflect the discipline and agility of our entrepreneurial organization as we continue to perform well in a very dynamic and challenging environment. Now turning to our end markets. I would just comment that we continue to be very pleased that our end market exposure remains highly diversified, balanced, and broad. And in particular, amid these very dynamic times, this market diversification continues to create great value for Amphenol. Now starting with our military market represented 10% of our sales in the quarter. Sales grew by 7% from prior year and were up 1% organically with growth in space and avionics applications somewhat offset by moderations in our sales on to UAVs, naval and military vehicles. Sequentially, our sales decreased by 2%, which was just a hair below our expectations coming into the quarter. And looking now into the second quarter, we expect sales in the defense market to increase modestly from these first quarter levels. We continue to be very pleased with the strength of the company's position in the defense market, a market that has renewed importance given the current geopolitical environment. As militaries around the world continue to accelerate their adoption of next-generation technologies, our industry-leading breadth of high-technology interconnect and sensor products positions the company strongly across essentially all major military programs. This gives us great confidence for our long-term performance. The commercial air market represented 3% of our sales in the quarter, and sales in commercial air increased by a strong 42% from prior year and 28% organically as we benefited from the continued recovery in global aircraft production. Sequentially, our sales grew by a better-than-expected 8% from the fourth quarter. And as we look into the second quarter, while we do expect a sequential moderation of sales compared to these first quarter levels, we anticipate another quarter of year-over-year growth in commercial air. After two very challenging years in the air travel industry, we're encouraged by the strengthening of our com air business. As personal and business travel continues to recover, we look forward to benefiting from the company's strong Interconnect and Sensor technology position across a wide array of aircraft platforms, as well as the next-generation systems that are integrated into those planes. The industrial market represented 25% of our sales in the quarter, and we drove another quarter of excellent performance in the industrial market. Sales grew 31% in U.S. dollars and 20% organically, and this was driven by robust growth across most of the segments within the industrial market. But we did see particular strength in battery and electric heavy vehicle applications, factory automation, and oil and gas, as well as the benefits of several of the acquisitions that we've done over the last year. On a sequential basis, sales were down just 1% from the fourth quarter, which was better than our expectations coming into this quarter. Looking into the second quarter, we expect sales in the industrial market to increase moderately from current levels. So this first quarter confirmed once again that our outstanding global team working in the industrial market continues to find new opportunities for growth across the many segments of this exciting market. I remain confident that our long-term strategy to expand our high-technology interconnect antenna and sensor offering, both organically and through complementary acquisitions, has positioned us well to capitalize on the many revolutions happening across the industrial electronics market. We look forward to realizing the benefits of this strategy for many years to come. The automotive market represented 20% of our sales in the quarter, and sales grew by 17% in U.S. dollars and organically with our growth-driven once again by the strength of our sales into electric and hybrid electric vehicle applications. Sequentially, sales increased by 5% from the first -- fourth quarter which is actually much better than our expectations of a high single-digit decline. And this just reflected strong execution by our team working in the automotive market. For the second quarter, we expect a modest sequential decline in sales as customers manage through a wide array of supply chain challenges in the global automotive market. I remain extremely proud of our team working across the automotive market. They continue to manage through a difficult supply chain environment, all while remaining laser-focused on driving new design wins with customers who are implementing a wide array of new technologies into their vehicle platforms. Our continued outperformance is a direct result of that team's excellent efforts. The mobile devices market represented 10% of our sales in the quarter. Sales increased by 7% from prior year, with strength in tablets, smartphones, wearables, as well as laptops. Sequentially, our sales decline was less than what we had expected, declining 27% from the fourth quarter. As we look into the second quarter, we now anticipate a low double-digit sequential sales decline from these levels driven by typical seasonality, as well as by some impact from the recent COVID-related shutdowns that have been occurring and continue to occur in China. There's no question that mobile devices remains our most volatile of end markets. Nevertheless, our outstanding and agile team is poised as always to capture any opportunities for incremental sales that may arise in 2022 and beyond. Our leading array of antennas, interconnect products, and mechanisms continues to enable a broad range of next-generation mobile devices, positioning us well for the long term. The mobile networks market represented 5% of our sales in the first quarter and sales in this market grew from prior year by a stronger-than-expected 14% in U.S. dollars and 5% organically as strength from products sold directly to network operators, together with the benefit of acquisitions more than offset a moderation of our sales to equipment OEMs. Sequentially, our sales in the first quarter were flat to the levels that we achieved in the fourth quarter. As we look into the second quarter, we expect a modest decline from these first quarter levels. Nevertheless, we're encouraged to see continued strength in our sales to the mobile networks market. As operators continue to ramp up their investments in next-generation systems, our team remains focused on realizing the benefits of our efforts to expand our position in next-generation 5G equipment and networks around the world. We look forward, especially to benefiting from the increased potential that comes from our unique position with both equipment manufacturers and mobile service providers. The information technology and data communications market represented 22% of our sales in the quarter. Sales were stronger than expected in IT datacom, rising by a very robust 41% in U.S. dollars and 35% organically from prior year as our teams capitalized on broad-based strength across server and networking applications. And in particular, we saw continued robust growth of our sales to web service provider and data center operator customers. We were pleased that sales moderated by just 2% sequentially in the first quarter, which was better than our expectations coming into Q1. Looking to the second quarter, we expect sales to increase in the mid-single digits from these first quarter levels as customer demand continues to grow in IT datacom. We remain encouraged by the company's outstanding position in this important market. Our OEM and web service provider customers continue to drive their equipment and networks to ever-higher levels of performance in order to manage the dramatic increases in demand for bandwidth and processor power. We look forward to realizing the benefits of our leading position for many years to come. The broadband market represented 5% of our sales in the quarter, and sales in this market also grew by a very strong 47% from prior year and 12% organically as broadband spending levels increased and as we benefited from our recent acquisitions. On a sequential basis, sales increased by a much better-than-expected 30% from the fourth quarter. And we're pleased, in particular, to start to see some progress in pricing actions across this market. In the second quarter, we expect sales to the broadband market to increase modestly from these levels. And we look forward to continuing to support our broadband service provider customers around the world with our expanded range of high-technology products. As our customers increase the bandwidth and capacity of their networks, to support the expansion of high-speed data applications to both homes and businesses, our products have become even more critical. Now turning to our outlook for the second quarter. The current market environment remains highly uncertain with ongoing supply chain and inflationary challenges being in many ways, exacerbated by both the war in Ukraine, as well as the continued impact of the pandemic, which is causing shutdowns in certain geographies, most notably in China. Assuming conditions do not meaningfully worsen and also assuming, of course, constant exchange rates. For the second quarter, we expect sales in the range of $2.890 billion to $2.950 billion and adjusted diluted EPS in the range of $0.66 to $0.68. These expectations would represent strong sales growth of 9% to 11% and adjusted diluted EPS growth of 8% to 11% versus the second quarter of last year. I just have to say that I remain confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to adapt to the many opportunities and challenges that are still present in the marketplace and to continue to grow our market position while expanding the company's profitability. In addition, our organization remains committed to delivering long-term sustainable value, all while prioritizing the continued safety and health of each of our employees around the world. And I'd just like to take this opportunity at the end here to thank all of those employees, more than 90,000 of them around the world, the entire Amphenol team for their truly outstanding efforts here in the first quarter. And with that, operator, we'd be very happy to take any questions that there may be. 