  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the Equinix fourth quarter earnings conference call. All lines will be on listen-only until we open for questions. Also today's conference is being recorded. If anyone have objections, please disconnect. I'd like to now turn the call over to Katrina Rymill, senior vice president of corporate finance and sustainability. You may begin.Katrina Rymill -- Vice President of Corporate Finance and Sustainability

 



 Good afternoon, and welcome to today's conference call. Before we get started, I'd like to remind everyone that some of the statements we're making today are forward-looking in nature and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may vary significantly from those statements and may be affected by the risks we identified in today's press release and those identified in our filings with the SEC, including our most recent Form 10-K filed on February 19, 2021, and 10-Q filed on November 4, 2021. Equinix assumes no obligation and does not intend to update or comment on forward-looking statements made on this call. In addition, in light of Regulation Fair Disclosure, it's Equinix's policy not to comment on the financial guidance during the quarter, unless it is done through an explicit public disclosure. In addition, we will provide non-GAAP measures on today's conference call. We provide a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and a list of the reasons why the company uses these measures in today's press release on the Equinix IR page at www.equinix.com. We have made available on the IR page of our website a presentation designed to accompany this discussion, along with certain supplemental financial information and other data.We'd also like to remind you that we post important information about Equinix in the IR page from time to time and encourage you to check our website regularly for the most current available information. With us today are Charles Meyers, Equinix's CEO and president; and Keith Taylor, chief financial officer. Following our prepared remarks, we'll be taking questions from sell-side analysts. In the interest of wrapping this call up an hour, we'd like to ask these analysts to limit any following questions to just one. At this time, I'll turn the call over to Charles.  

 



Charles Meyers -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Katrina. Good afternoon, everybody, and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call. We had a great finish to the year with our best bookings performance ever, driven by an exceptional demand backdrop for our business with continued strength across our platform, but more specifically in the Americas, low churn, and continued momentum in our digital services portfolio. For the full year, we achieved over $6.6 billion of revenue, marking our 76th consecutive quarter of top-line increases, an amazing 19 years of continuous revenue growth while driving attractive AFFO per share to the bottom line. Amidst the dynamic and complex global landscape, we continue to deliver against our vision and our fiscal year results demonstrate both the increasing relevance of our platform and our uniquely differentiated value proposition. Businesses globally continue to prioritize digital transformation as a foundational source of competitive advantage. And the secular drivers for our business have never been stronger as digital leaders demand infrastructure that is more distributed, more ecosystem powered, more flexible, more sustainable, and more interconnected than ever before. Increasingly, Equinix represents a critical point of Nexus as customers implement hybrid and multi-cloud as the clear architecture of choice. And as the global market leader, we continue to innovate and expand our portfolio to respond to these evolving customer demands and capture the enormous opportunity ahead. As we look to 2022, the trajectory and underlying momentum in our business is exceptionally strong with a solid demand pipeline, stable churn, and a rising price trend, resulting in a revenue outlook for the year that is at or above the high end of our long-term guidance range, and an AFFO per share outlook that is still within our long-term guidance range despite pressure at the gross margin line associated with power price volatility in Singapore. As per these specific dynamics, our underlying business performance would be producing AFFO per share growth toward the high end of our Analyst Day guidance, well ahead of our expectations. We have a robust global power hedging program, has been and we expect will continue to be highly effective at smoothing utility price volatility over the years, providing predictability and value across markets for Equinix and our customers.

 



 We believe the current dislocation in Singapore is transitory with power prices showing signs of moderating in the second half of the year. Bottom line, the business is performing very well, and we remain on track to meeting or exceeding our Analyst Day objectives for both top-line revenue and AFFO per share growth. And as we see the temporary headwinds moderate and continue to realize efficiency gains from prior-year investments, we have a strong resolve and continued confidence in our ability to scale adjusted EBITDA margin to 50% by 2025. Turning to our results. As depicted on Slide 3, revenues for the full year were $6.6 billion, up 8% year over year. Adjusted EBITDA was also up 8% year over year, and AFFO per share grew 9% year over year. Interconnection revenues for the quarter grew 12% year over year with solid unit adds reflecting strong momentum with Equinix fabric as expanding use cases drive connections to more locations and more counterparties. These growth rates are all on a normalized and constant-currency basis. Our global reach remains as important as ever. EC predicts that by 2025, more than 50% of enterprise data will be generated at the edge and customers continue to see Equinix as the best manifestation of the digital edge. This competitive differentiation continues to drive our business with revenues from multi-region customers increasing 1% quarter over quarter to an impressive 75%. In December, we announced our long-awaited entry into Africa with our intended acquisition of MainOne, a leading West African data center and connectivity solution provider with a presence in Nigeria, Ghana, and the Ivory Coast, set to close in early Q2. This acquisition will mark the first step in Equinix's long-term strategy to become one of Africa's leading digital infrastructure providers and will position us well in the continent's largest economy. To fuel our ongoing global interconnection leadership, we're also targeting strategic Internet traffic flows by supporting and winning subsea cables, such as EllaLink, the first-ever subsea cable between Europe and Latin America, which recently went into operation with pops in our Sao Paulo 4, Lisbon 1, and Madrid 2 IBX and by entering new markets like our recently completed Genoa, Italy IBX and our newly announced IBX in Salalah, Oman. Our data center services portfolio remains the bedrock of platform Equinix, and we're excited about the recent appointment of Jon Link to the position of EVP and general manager for data center services. Jon has delivered extraordinary results as the president of our Americas business and is a great choice to implement our strategy and extend our global market leadership in interconnected colocation. To that end, we continue to expand on our global footprint with 41 major projects underway across 28 metros in 19 countries, representing over 20,000 cabinets of retail and over 80 megawatts of xScale capacity. We remain focused on simplifying, automating, and digitizing our services, allowing us to scale our business and enhance operating leverage, and we're already seeing the results of these efforts. For example, we recently launched our new Secure Cab Express product, leveraging predeployed capacity to dramatically reduce cycle times and enable online quoting and ordering for our most commonly requested configurations. We expect to roll this new service out to customers in the coming quarters, driving increased customer responsiveness while simultaneously enhancing margins. Our global interconnection franchise continues to perform well and we now have over 419,000 interconnections on our industry-leading platform. In Q4, we added an incremental 7,500 organic interconnections as enterprises drive growth and further enhance our ecosystem density. Internet exchange saw peak traffic up 6% quarter over quarter and 27% year over year with peak traffic in APAC surpassing 10 terabits per second for the first time as service providers increasingly look to IX with improved Internet traffic delivery. Turning to digital infrastructure services. Cloud computing has permanently reshaped customer expectations for speed and simplicity. Customers want to deploy infrastructure where they want it, when they want it, seamlessly integrating cloud-based workloads and private infrastructure and enabling agility and performance between the two. As a result, customers are embracing a broader set of our services combining fabric, metal, and network edge to build virtual points of presence and our planned expansions will fully enable this capability across 30 markets by the end of 2022. For the quarter, Equinix fabric saw excellent growth, eclipsing $150 million in revenue run rate with a third of our customers now using fabric for a variety of use cases across a broad set of destinations. Our Equinix metal business delivered strong results with a great mix of wins and new logos across verticals and a healthy backlog. And network edge saw continued traction with growth from new and existing customers as they use the service to implement WAN optimization and cloud-to-cloud routing. Shifting to xScale. In January, we announced plans to expand xScale into South Korea with an agreement to establish a $525 million joint venture with GIC to develop two data centers in Seoul. Total investment in our various hyperscale joint ventures when closed and fully built out is now expected to be more than $8 billion across 36 facilities globally with more than 720 megawatts of power capacity. We currently have nine xScale builds under development. And during the quarter, we fully leased the first phase of our Frankfurt 11 asset and the first and second phases of our Sao Paulo 5 asset representing approximately 20 megawatts of capacity. Total xScale leasing is now over 130 megawatts, and our initial JV in EMEA is over 80% leased. Now let me cover some of the highlights from our verticals. Our network vertical had solid bookings quarter with healthy new logo activity led by the Americas as companies expand and optimize digital capabilities to support with the delivery and consumption of data at the edge. New wins and expansions included a Fortune 200 telecom company deploying infrastructure to support the U.S.'s first cloud-native, Open-RAN-based 5G network. Indigo Networks, an Australian cable systems operator, deploying digital infrastructure to support a new subsea cable across Southeast Asia, Australia, and the U.S. and an African local telco deploying a network hub in Lisbon to improve peering and performance. Our enterprise vertical saw another quarter of record bookings as IDC predicts almost half of the global economy will be based on or influenced by digital in 2022, fueling strong demand for hybrid infrastructure. Q4 had particular strength in fintech, industrial services, and energy subsegments, with wins and expansions, including NASDAQ, a Fortune 500 technology company scaling its cloud-enabled infrastructure to deliver ultra-low latency edge compute capabilities from our NY 11 data center in Carteret. Avaya, a cloud communications and work stream collaboration company, implementing an edge data center strategy on Platform Equinix to streamline private connectivity for its customers. And ADT, U.S.' leading smart home security provider embracing the cloud with an infrastructure modernization effort spanning multiple geographies. Our cloud and IT services vertical also had solid bookings this quarter, led by the software and infrastructure subsegments with good momentum in EMEA and APAC. Expansions included Zscaler, a leading Global 2000 security cloud provider, upgrading capacity for sustainable enterprise cloud transformation, and growing network traffic at the edge. With technology, the Singaporean full suite IP service provider deploying on Equinix metal and upgrading fabric services to support quick and seamless business expansion. And Oracle, a top five global software provider deploying Fast Connect cloud on-ramps to support new regions in Singapore, Milan, and Stockholm, bringing their total number of on-ramps available at Equinix to 24, more than any of their other partners. Our content and digital media vertical had strong bookings, led by the publishing and digital media subsegments and record channel activity. Expansions included Cloud Player, the U.S.-based global web infrastructure and security company upgrading and expanding their footprint in over 40 markets. Index Exchange, a global ad tech marketplace, expanding compute nodes in APAC to manage traffic growth and a top three global credit agency deploying regional network and cloud hubs in APAC to support its operations. Our channel program delivered a record quarter to close the year, accounting for 40% of bookings and nearly 60% of new logos. And we have line of sight for channels to grow 50% of our bookings in the coming years as we enhance our systems and processes and leverage our diverse set of partners to scale our reach. Wins were across a wide range of industry verticals and use cases with continued strength from strategic partners like Microsoft, Dell, Cisco, Google, and BT, including a significant win with Wipro and AT&T, helping a utility company modernize its IT infrastructure in Europe and the U.S. So now let me turn the call over to Keith to cover results for the quarter. Keith Taylor -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Charles. Good afternoon to everyone. I'll start my prepared remarks by saying our business is performing exceedingly well, frankly, better than our expectations for both the quarter and year, and we're bringing our momentum into 2022. We had a great end to the year, delivering record gross and net bookings with very strong channel activity while recording our highest ever-recurring revenue step-up in the quarter. For the year, without any major acquisitions, revenues were up over $600 million, closed over 17,500 deals in 2021, highlighting the tremendous scale and reach of our business and the velocity of our go-to-market engine. The Americas region continues to pick up stream growing 10% over the prior year, effectively double the rate approval from last year, benefiting from strong leadership and a distributed portfolio of highly interconnected IBX assets, resulting in record bookings and lower churn. For the company, our churn settled at the lower end of our guided range of 2% to 2.5% per quarter for an average of 2.1% per quarter for the year, our lowest level since 2016, which is highly reflective of our strategy to put the right customer with the right application into the right IBX. Quite simply, the decisions we're making are strengthening and extending our leadership position as the world's digital infrastructure company. Now as previously discussed, perhaps top of mind for you, there are a number of macroeconomic factors that we continue to proactively manage such as supply chain, power costs, interest rates and inflation. As it relates to power costs, we're seeing approximately 130 basis points of end-year margin pressure due to the temporarily inflated power rates in Singapore and the lapping up the favorable VPPA settlements from Texas last February. For 2022, we're predominantly hedged to meet our global economies but intend to continue to layer an additional hedge for the remaining '22 exposure and to meet the demands for future periods as we navigate past this unusually volatile period. As Charles noted, we expect the market dislocation in Singapore to be transitory, largely given that current prices are significantly higher than any other markets that we operate in and the spot market rates that appear to be trending down, although they do remain volatile. As reflected in our guidance, we expect second half margins to improve over the first half and we remain on our path to deliver against our Analyst Day adjusted EBITDA and AFFO margin expectations. As it relates to the rising interest rate environment, our balance sheet is very well positioned. We have minimal near-term exposure to rising interest rates with 95% of our debt fixed across a weighted average maturity period of over nine years. And despite the recent increase in interest rates, the cost of oil remains at historically low levels, while we enjoy returns substantially higher than or multiples of our cost to borrow and WACC. Our financial strength continues to feel significant and our balance sheet, fueled by our strong cash generation capabilities, has great flexibility. Lastly, with regards to supply chain and the inflationary pressures in the marketplace, we've invested heavily in a sophisticated and forward-leaning procurement and strategic sourcing organization, allowing us to execute against a robust development pipeline across our platform, while continuing to deliver against our return expectations. This is not to say there isn't congestion in the supply chain, but we feel very well placed with our partners and suppliers, resulting in limited delays against our expectations. To highlight that point, in the fourth quarter alone, we added 17 new projects to our IBX and xScale build program across 14 separate markets, while we completed seven projects across six markets. Now let me cover the highlights for the quarter, note that all growth rates in this section are on a normalized and constant-currency basis. As depicted on Slide 4, global Q4 revenues were $1.706 billion, up 10% over the same quarter last year and above the top end of our guidance range due to strong business performance led by the Americas. Consistent with our expectation, nonrecurring revenue stepped down to 6% of total revenues in the quarter due to timing of large customer installations. Interconnection revenues were 19% of recurring revenues, but strong growth across all three regions reflecting the continued benefit of our global platform and diversified product portfolio. Q4 revenues, net of our FX hedges, included a $5 million headwind when compared to our prior guidance rates. Global Q4 adjusted EBITDA was $788 million or 46% of revenues, up 11% over the same quarter last year and above the top end of our guidance range due to strong operating performance and timing of spend. Q4 adjusted EBITDA, net of our FX hedges, included a $3 million headwind when compared to our prior guidance rates and $5 million of integration costs. Global Q4 AFFO was $564 million, in line with our expectations while absorbing the anticipated and seasonally higher recurring capex investments similar to prior years. Q4 global MRR turn was 2% at the bottom end of our targeted 2% to 2.5% range. Turning to our regional highlights, whose full results were covered on Slides 5 through 7. The Americas were the fastest MRR growing regions on a year-over-year normalized basis at 11% and 10%, respectively, followed by the EMEA region, which stepped back up to 9% year-over-year growth as expected. The Americas region had another outstanding quarter, delivering record bookings with robust channel activity, strong net positive pricing actions and lower churn. The Americas momentum is broad-based with 24 of our 27 metros increasing gross bookings year over year, led by our Boston, Danbury, Mexico City, Los Angeles, and Toronto markets. The former Bell Canada assets continue to perform better than expected, in part due to increasing carrier and cloud deployments in our key Canadian markets. Our EMEA region had a solid quarter with strong retail bookings by our U.K., Dutch, and German businesses. Interestingly, we're seeing growing customer interest in this region, given our sustainability efforts including the recently signed VPPA with a wind farm developer in Finland to cover over 30 megawatts of capacity. And finally, the Asia-Pacific region had a solid quarter with strong pricing and new local activity. We're experiencing good momentum in India with the GPX assets performing well above planned. Although Singapore remains capacity constrained, we welcome the government's recent decision to lift the moratorium on new data center builds. Going forward, new construction will need to deliver strategic value and international connectivity for Singapore's digital economy, but also needs to be at the forefront of sustainability. We feel extremely well positioned to deliver against the government's criteria. Now looking at our capital structure. Please refer to Slide 8. At the year-end, we had unrestricted cash of approximately $1.5 billion, a step up from last quarter due to strong operating cash flow and approximately $400 million of ATM funding, offset by our investment and the dividend payment. In early January, we renegotiated our line of credit, providing us access to $4 billion of additional liquidity, while also increasing our financial flexibility under our new revised covenant package. Looking forward, we'll continue to take a balanced approach to funding our growth consistent with our investment-grade rating while staying focused on creating long-term value for our shareholders. Turning to Slide 9 for the quarter. Capital expenditures were approximately $817 million, including a recurring capex of $86 million, a meaningful increase over the prior quarter as expected. We opened seven major projects since our last call, including new IBXs in Genoa, Munich, and Perth, and a new xScale asset in Osaka. We also purchased land for development in Dublin and Istanbul. Revenues from owned assets represent 59% of our recurring revenues. Our Kaplan methods delivered strong returns, as shown on Slide 10. Our now 158 stabilized assets increased recurring revenues by 5% year over year on a constant-currency basis. The top end of our growth range as expected due to strong Americas growth. These stabilized assets are collectively 86% utilized and generate a 27% cash-on-cash return on the gross PP&E invested. And please refer to Slides 11 through 16 for our updated summary of 2022 guidance and bridges. To note, all growth rates are on a normalized and constant-currency basis, and our guidance does not include the anticipated results from the pending close of the MainOne acquisition or any potential future capital market activities. Starting with revenues. For 2022, we expect top line growth of 9% to 10%, above the top end of our long-term range, reflecting the continued momentum in the business, MRR churn is expected to remain within our targeted range of 2% to 2.5% per quarter. We expect 2022 adjusted EBITDA margins of approximately 46%, excluding integration costs, the result of strong operating leverage and efficiency initiatives in the business, temporarily used by the higher utility expenses. We expect to incur $20 million of integration costs in 2022 for our various acquisitions. 2022 AFFO is expected to grow 8% to 10% compared to the previous year, and the AFFO per share is expected to grow 7% to 8%. 2022 capex is expected to be approximately $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion, including approximately $100 million of on-balance sheet ex sales spend, which we expect to be reimbursed as we transfer these assets into the JV, and about $160 million of recurring capex spend. And finally, we expect our 2022 cash dividends to increase to slightly greater than $1.1 billion, a 10% increase over the prior year or an 8% increase on a per share basis. I'll stop here, and let me turn the call back to Charles. Charles Meyers -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Keith. In closing, we're immensely pleased with the underlying performance of our business and are as optimistic as ever about the opportunity in front of us. Although the transitory effects from power pricing impact elements of our 2022 guide. Our normalized results would indicate a business trajectory to put us meaningfully ahead of our Analyst Day expectations. We continue to work hard to further mitigate the in-year impacts of the Singapore power volatility and in parallel, intend to continue to strengthen our market-leading position as the world's digital infrastructure company by scaling and transforming our data center business, while also accelerating our digital services business to deliver on the promise of physical infrastructure at software speed. And we intend to continue to advance a bold ESG agenda, addressing the urgency of climate change with a commitment to climate neutrality by 2030 and fostering a culture and workplace where every person every day can confidently say, "I'm safe, I belong, and I matter." Of note, we were thrilled to recently receive a perfect score from the human rights campaign and be recognized as a best place to work for LGBTQ+ quality. And are proud to be ranked No. 1 in real estate in Just Capital's 2022 ranking of America's Most Just Companies. Over our nearly 25-year history, we have created and cultivated a foundational set of advantages, superior global reach, now spanning 66 metros in 27 countries. Advantaged access to the world's most powerful digital ecosystems with more than 10,000 customers and over half the Fortune 500, the world's most comprehensive and advanced interconnection platform and a track record of service excellence that gives our customers the peace of mind they deserve. These advantages are strongly aligned to market trends and nearly impossible to duplicate, a dynamic that continues to fuel strong growth in a rapidly expanding addressable market and we are confident will translate to compelling long-term value creation. As we strive to fulfill our purpose to be the platform where the world comes together, enabling the innovations that enrich our work, our life, and our plan. We will continue to show up every day remaining in service to our stakeholders, to each other, to our customers, to our communities, and to you, our shareholders. So let me stop there and open it up for questions.  