  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Qualcomm first quarter fiscal 2022 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Please limit your questions to one question and one follow-up. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, February 2, 2022. The playback number for today's call is 877-660-6853. International callers, please dial 201-612-7415. The playback reservation number is 13726028. I would now like to turn the call over to Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, vice president of investor relations. Mr. Lopez-Hodoyan, please go ahead.Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Today's call will include prepared remarks by Cristiano Amon and Akash Palkhiwala. In addition, Alex Rogers will join the question-and-answer session. You can access our earnings release and a slide presentation that accompany this call on our Investor Relations website. In addition, this call is being webcast on qualcomm.com, and a replay will be available on our website later today. During the call today, we will use non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G, and you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website. We will also make forward-looking statements, including projections and estimates of future events, business or industry trends, or business or financial results. Actual events or results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.Please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-K, which contain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. And now to comments from Qualcomm's president and chief executive officer, Cristiano Amon. Cristiano Amon -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mauricio, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. Based on our performance over the past several quarters and the strong fiscal second-quarter guidance, it is clear that our strategy is working. Demand for our products and solutions continues to accelerate as our one technology road map is driving the growth of premium Android smartphones, as well as enabling the connected intelligent edge, which is driving digital transformation for the cloud-connected economy. As you can see from our results today, strong performance in our chipset and licensing business led to record fiscal first-quarter revenues of $10.7 billion and record non-GAAP earnings per share of $3.23. Our chipset business had its second consecutive quarter of record performance with revenues of $8.8 billion, EBIT of $3.1 billion, and EBIT margin of 35%. Notably, QCT revenues exceeded those of any fabless semiconductor company. These results demonstrate the continued success of our diversification strategy. In IoT, we continue to see strong momentum with revenue growth of 41% year over year in the first quarter across consumer, edge networking, and industrial. In consumer IoT, our early investments, collaboration with Microsoft, and the recent acquisition of NUVIA uniquely positions us to drive the PC industry transition to ARM-based computing for next-generation connected laptops. We recently introduced two new platforms, the 8cx Gen 3 and 7c+ Gen 3. And at CES, we highlighted broad support from ecosystem partners, including Acer, ASUS, HP, Lenovo, and Microsoft, as well as 200 enterprise customers currently testing or deploying Windows on Snapdragon laptops in two-in-one devices. We're also seeing strong growth in premium and high-tier Android tablets, further highlighting the convergence of mobile and PC. Notably, we have already doubled the total number of premium tier and/or tablet design wins launch or in the pipeline versus all of fiscal '21. Additionally, as the metaverse opportunity materializes, we continue to build on our industry leadership position in VR and AR devices with key ecosystem players, including Meta and Microsoft. At CES, we announced a collaboration with Microsoft to expand and accelerate the adoption of augmented reality in both the consumer and enterprise sectors. This partnership includes custom AR chips to enable a new wave of power-efficient, lightweight AR glasses to deliver rich and immersive experiences, as well as plans to integrate our Snapdragon Spaces XR developer platform into Microsoft mesh. We're also very pleased that Time Magazine named our Snapdragon XR2 platform as one of the best inventions of 2021. And we're seeing strong support for our VR and AR platforms from virtually all ecosystem providers, OEMs, and content creators. In edge networking, we continue to lead in current and next-generation high-performance Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 6E solutions, which now make up more than 80% of our WiFi access point revenues. Recently, we launched the world's first quad-band Wi-Fi 6E mesh system with NETGEAR, which was rated the best-in-class match platform by PC Magazine. Additionally, our Wi-Fi 6 immersive home platforms continue to gain momentum across regions, with significant growth now expanding into China, one of the fastest-growing markets for Wi-Fi 6 for both retail and carrier deployments. 5G as wireless fiber continues to gain scale and expand globally. In addition to our extended range millimeter-wave platforms, we recently expanded our portfolio to include 5G fixed wireless access solutions with extended range sub-six, and we're seeing strong traction. In industrial, we're still in the early phases of digital transformation across many industries. And demand for our solutions continues to accelerate. As an example, combined smart utility meter, tracking robotics, and retail revenues more than double over the last year. In robotics, specifically, we expect total fiscal '22 product launches using our platforms to increase by over 50% year over year, spanning applications from warehouse automation to public safety, delivery services, and in-home assistance. The diversity of vertical segments and applications reflects our ability to provide a common platform that integrates advanced computer vision, on-device AI high performance in low-power computing, and industry-leading connectivity technologies. In RF front end, we successfully launched our latest 5G modules, which now include our ultraBAW technology. Our modem-to-antenna strategy is working, enhancing power and performance with average generation of Snapdragon. Notably, virtually all our Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 design wins now include Qualcomm ultraBAW filter technology. Building on our success in handsets, we're seeing traction with our modem-to-antenna solution across automotive and IoT. As examples, we're well-positioned to address up to $30 of 5G RF content per vehicle, and we're also intersecting our RF front-end road map with Wi-Fi 7. In automotive, Qualcomm is becoming the technology partner of choice for the industry, and we're enabling the transition of the automobile to a digital cloud-connected platform. Our innovative Snapdragon digital chassis is an open and scalable cloud-enabled platform for telematics, connectivity, digital cockpit, and ADAS, and uniquely position us as the leading system solution provider for silicon, software, systems, and services across multiple domains. As a reminder, General Motors, BMW, and now Renault Group are cornerstone customers for our platform, including ADAS. At CES, we announced an addition to our ADAS and autonomy platform, the Snapdragon Ride Vision System, a new modular computer vision solution that combines our Snapdragon Ride SoCs with the next-generation vision perception software from Arriver. It supports the various compute functions needed for enhanced perception around the vehicle, and it scales across applications from entry tier in-cap front camera to comprehensive front and surround-view camera for enhanced autonomy. We expect the Snapdragon Ride Vision System to be available in production in 2024. In handsets, we recently announced our most advanced 5G mobile platform for flagship smartphones, the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 at our annual Snapdragon Tech Summit. The announcement was viewed by more than 50 million people worldwide. The news Snapdragon 800 Gen 1 leads the way to a new era of premium mobile technology with category-defining enhancements across modem RF, camera, AI, gaming, security, and more. Snapdragon 800 Gen 1 is the world's first 5G modem RF solution to reach 10-gigabit download speeds. It's the first to include commercial 18-bit mobile image sensor and the world's first platform compliant with the Android-ready Secure Element Alliance. We also announced new mobile platforms in every Snapdragon series to address global customer demand across every smartphone tier. In our licensing business, first-quarter results reflect a favorable mix in the strength of smartphone shipments. With over 150 5G license agreements, QTL is well-positioned for the future, and we continue to expect 5G to have a longer life cycle than prior generations due to its broad application across multiple industries. Lastly, demand remains strong across all of our technologies and continues to exceed supply. Despite ongoing challenges across the global supply chain, our multi-sourcing and capacity expansion initiatives will provide incremental improvements to our supply throughout the year. I would now like to turn the call over to Akash.Akash Palkhiwala -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Cristiano, and good afternoon, everyone. We are extremely pleased to report strong results to start our fiscal year. We delivered our second consecutive quarter of record non-GAAP earnings, with revenues of $10.7 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $3.23. These results reflect year-over-year increases of 30% and 49%, respectively, driven by strength across both QCT and QTL. For QCT, this was another record quarter with revenues of $8.8 billion and EBIT of $3.1 billion, up 35% and 62%, respectively, versus the year-ago quarter. QCT EBIT margins of 35% surpassed the high end of our guidance range and increased 6 points versus the year-ago quarter driven by revenue scale and operating leverage. Handset revenues of $6 billion increased 42% year over year due to greater than 60% growth in revenues from Snapdragon chipsets for Android devices. RF front-end revenues of $1.1 billion grew 7% versus the year-ago quarter, reflecting the previously mentioned pull-in of demand into the fourth fiscal quarter. Our RF front-end revenues for Android devices grew by greater than 25% versus the year-ago quarter as we continued to see strong traction across all major OEMs. IoT revenues were up 41% year over year to $1.5 billion on continued demand for our cloud-connected intelligent edge devices. Each of the consumer, edge networking, and industrial categories grew by at least 30% compared to the year-ago quarter. Automotive revenues of $256 million grew 21% year over year on the strength of our design wins across our Snapdragon digital chassis. We recorded QTL revenues of $1.8 billion, an increase of 10% year over year, and EBIT margins of 77%, which was above the midpoint of the guidance. These results reflect a favorable mix and slightly higher handset shipments. Turning to global handsets and our guidance for the second fiscal quarter. For calendar 2021, consistent with the previous guidance, we estimate global 3G, 4G, 5G handsets grew 7% year over year, including approximately 535 million 5G handsets. For calendar 2022, there is no change to the forecast provided at our Investor Day with greater than 750 million 5G handsets. For the second fiscal quarter, we are forecasting revenues of $10.2 billion to $11 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $2.80 to $3. In QCT, we expect revenues of $8.7 billion to $9.3 billion and EBIT margins of 32% to 34%. At the midpoint, this implies year-over-year revenue growth of 43% and EBIT dollar growth of $1.4 billion. For handsets and RF front end, we expect revenues to be in line sequentially as seasonal decline in Apple revenues is offset by continued growth in revenues from Android devices. Within handsets, the increase in Android revenue is driven by the launch of our new Snapdragon premium chipset and additional shipments across high and mid-tiers due to our second sourcing efforts. Additionally, we expect strong year-over-year and sequential growth in our IoT and automotive revenue streams. We estimate QTL revenues of $1.45 billion to $1.65 billion and EBIT margins of 70% to 74%. This reflects the normal pre-COVID trends following the strong holiday quarter. We anticipate non-GAAP operating expenses to be up 7% to 9% sequentially on normal seasonality, including calendar year resets for certain employee-related costs. The remaining increase reflects select investments in long-term growth initiatives that we outlined at our Investor Day. Looking forward to the third fiscal quarter, we are forecasting year-over-year non-GAAP EPS growth of greater than 30%. For QCT, these reflect the seasonality following Chinese New Year purchases and the launch of our new Snapdragon premium chipset in the second quarter. We expect the next inflection point in QCT to be in the second half of the calendar year, with launch of new 5G handsets across several major OEMs. Lastly, we published our annual corporate responsibility and ESG report yesterday, which outlines progress against our companywide targets, including environmental sustainability, diversity and inclusion, and power efficiency of our Snapdragon products. We are pleased to have been recognized by several organizations, including making the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and Newsweek's most responsible company list for the third consecutive year. Thank you. Back to you, Mauricio.Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Akash. Operator, we are now ready for questions. 