
OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Leidos Q2 2021 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question and answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Stuart Davis, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Stuart Davis -- Senior Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you, Hector, and good morning, everyone. I would like to welcome you to our second quarter fiscal year 2021 earnings conference call. Joining me today are Roger Krone, our Chairman and CEO; and Chris Cage, our Chief Financial Officer. Today's call is being webcast on the Investor Relations portion of our website, where you will also find the earnings release and presentation slides that we will use during today's call.Turning to Slide 2 of the presentation. Today's discussion contains Forward-Looking Statements based on the environment as we currently see it, and as such, does include risks and uncertainties. Please refer to our press release for more information on the specific risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Finally, as shown on Slide 3, during the call, we will discuss GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures a reconciliation between the two is included in today's press release and presentation slides.With that, I will turn the call over to Roger Krone, who will begin on Slide 4.Roger Krone -- Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerThank you Stuart and thank you all for joining us this morning for our second quarter 2021 earnings conference call.Our results in the second quarter reflect our leadership position in the government technology market. I'm tremendously proud of the way Leidos has responded throughout the pandemic as our employees and business partners continually delivered for our customers and shareholders. While we remain vigilant with the recent uptick in COVID-19 cases, Leidos is stronger than ever, with new quarterly record levels of revenue and backlog, consistent with our industry-leading organic growth. As I look at the quarter, four messages stand out. First, our strong financial results demonstrate that our strategy is working. Second, our business development momentum is setting the stage for future growth. Third, we are effectively deploying capital to broaden our offerings in attractive markets. And fourth, we are building an engaged and effective workforce.I will now drill down on each of these four key messages. Number one, our strong financial performance was highlighted by double-digit organic growth and adjusted EBITDA margins above our long-term target. Revenue for the quarter were $3.45 billion up 18% from the prior year on a total basis and up 16% organically. Adjusted EBITDA margins of 10.4% were in line with guidance and above the long-term target we established two years ago. After adjusting for the one-time gain in the second quarter of 2020, non-GAAP diluted EPS was up 37%. These results didn't just happen rather they are a direct result of our strategy. We have differentiated ourselves within the market through scale, which creates a more competitive cost structure and expanded capability to take share and position in vital markets. We have also leveraged our cost structure to make key technology investments, which further separates us from our peers.Number two, our business development engine continued the momentum that is driving our industry-leading organic growth. We achieved net bookings of $3.8 billion in the quarter, representing a book-to-bill ratio of 1.1. Our fourteenth consecutive quarter with a book-to-bill ratio of one or greater. Our trailing 12-month book-to-bill ratio is now 1.2. As a result, total backlog at the end of the quarter stood at a record $3 billion, which was up 9% on a year-over-year basis.In our Health segment, we were awarded a new fixed-price contract with a ceiling value of almost $1 billion to improve the health of military service before, during and after deployment. Under this contract, known as the Reserve Health Readiness Program, or RHRP. We will provide physical, mental health and dental assessments along with laboratory and diagnostic services supported by a secure IT infrastructure and customer service call center. America's more than one million reserve component personnel stand ready to support and defend our nation when it is called upon. It is our honor to support them.In our Defense Solutions segment, the Transportation Security Administration awarded us a $470 million prime contract to integrate transportation screening equipment at airports all around the country. Based on our policy, we only booked a small initial task order in the quarter, although we expect to achieve the full value over the life of the contract. This work is a reconfiguration of work we have been performing for over 12-years. And we also maintain screening equipment for TSA at all U.S. federalized airports, helping TSA ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce as one of the core ways Leidos is making the world safer, healthier and more efficient.In our Civil segment, the Federal Aviation Administration notified us that they have given us initial tasking as part of a long-term extension for the continued systems integration sustainment and enhancement of the En Route Automation Modernization, or ERAM system. The ERAM system is critical for operations in the national aerospace system and at the 20 air route traffic control centers in the Continental U.S. We didn't book anywhere close to the $6.8 billion ceiling value, but it speaks to the confidence that the FAA has in Leidos. We expect to begin the 2022 government fiscal year with a continuing resolution, but customers will still be able to fund work in critical needs areas. Our positive outlook is bolstered by the level of proposal activity. At the end of the quarter, we had $49 billion in submits outstanding of which $35 billion is new work for us.Number three, we are deploying capital to complete our offerings in attractive markets to spur profitable growth. In May, we completed the acquisition of Gibbs & Cox, which brings us world-class naval architecture design and engineering. They design 68% of the Navy's current surface combatant fleet and are truly a national asset. This deal enhances how we are viewed across the Navy and opens up significant market opportunity for us. Our strategic planning process had identified maritime as an attractive market where we were underpenetrated.To enable synergies, especially around unmanned surface and subsurface systems, Gibbs & Cox will be combined with Leidos' Maritime Systems division and operate under Dynetics within the Defense Solutions segment. In addition, we are seeing early returns from our 1901 Group acquisition, which we closed in January of this year. Most directly, 1901 is providing significant support to the NGEN program transition and operations. They have significantly expanded their workforce, growing the current enterprise IT operations center in Virginia and accelerate the establishment of new NGEN service desk locations in San Diego, Norfook and Boise. 1901's platform delivered IT services made them the best choice for the program's requirements in this area.1901 was also instrumental in securing a 125 million follow-on contract with the Bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives for managed IT services. 1901's strong customer relationships with the ATF, coupled with their efficient as-a-service delivery model, made them key to the bid and execution strategies. In addition to deploying capital to spurn growth, we were also committed to returning capital to shareholders. To that end, our Board just approved a 6% increase to the quarterly dividend. This increase reflects the confidence of the Board of Directors and the management team in the quality of our earnings and our ability to generate cash.Number four; this is a people business, and this quarter offered further proof that we are an employer of choice that can attract the workforce needed to meet our financial commitments. During the quarter, we hired more than 4,500 people and at the end of the quarter, we were more than 42,000 strong. Our headcount grew 6% sequentially and 11% year-over-year. Our ability to attract top talent in this manner is important as we staff up to successfully execute the new programs. One of the reasons we are attractive to job applicants is that we invest in talent management and career development. We regularly review talent and plan development actions including rotations at all levels throughout the company. As an example, Executive Vice President, Jim Cantor, recently announced his intent to retire after his distinguished 31-year career at Leidos. This enabled us to reconfigure our team to optimize performance given our rapid growth and the changes in market priorities.I asked Vicki Schmanske who is leading our intelligence group to assume the new role of Executive Vice President, Corporate Operations. In her new role, Vicki will drive operational performance and implementation of strategic functional initiatives. Roy Stevens who led business development and strategy succeeded Vicki as the President of the Intelligence Group. In addition, I asked Chief Human Resources Officer, Paul Angola, to lead a strategic effort to chart our way forward in the national security space market. These changes will help us prepare for an uncertain future. A few weeks ago, we kicked off the $1 million move-the-needle sweepstakes to encourage our employees to get vaccinated against COVID-19 and Hasson are coming back together. At the time, all of our facilities were open and all vaccinated individuals were able to work without a mask.A lot has changed in the past weeks. The highly contagious delta variant and the infection trends are disturbing. As we have throughout the pandemic, we will comply with all CDC guidelines, and most of our facilities will require masks regardless of vaccination status. While we do not expect that our customers will be shutting down their offices again, we cannot be certain. In the face of that uncertainty, we have decided to keep our current forward guidance in place and Chris will walk you through that in more detail. For me, part of returning to normal is being able to get together face-to-face with our investors and analysts. It is our intent to host an Investor Day in New York on October 7th. We have a compelling story to tell, and we look forward to doing just that. We will closely watch for COVID protocols from New York City and update you if our plans change.Finally, Frank Kendall has stepped down from our Board to serve as the Secretary of the Air Force. I want to thank Frank for his service to Leidos and more importantly, to the Air Force, the Department of Defense and the nation.I will now turn the call over to Chris Cage. I'm delighted to have Chris step up to the CFO role and join us on these calls.Christopher Cage -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Roger, and thanks to everyone for joining us today. I have worked at Leidos for 23-years, and I have personally benefited from the forward-thinking developmental programs that Roger referenced earlier. My predecessor and Mentor, Jim Reagan, created a very strong team in set of processes and disciplines that I have had the opportunity to help shape over the last few years. Going forward, my initial areas of focus will be threefold: delivering on our financial commitments, integrating acquisitions and prioritizing spending on investments to execute our strategy. With that, let's jump right into the second quarter fiscal year 2021 results.Beginning with the income statement on Slide 5, I will first run through the financial results at the corporate level, then turn to the segment level to address the primary revenue and profitability drivers. As Roger said, the highlight of the quarter was our organic growth, which is truly unprecedented in our industry at our scale. Revenue quarter were $3.45 billion up 18% compared to the prior year quarter. Excluding acquired revenues of $58 million, revenues increased 16% organically. Notably, revenues grew organically across all three reportable segments. The organic growth is somewhat inflated by the drop in the revenues last year as a result of the pandemic when for example, our VA disability exam business was almost entirely shutdown. Even if we add back the 132 million direct pandemic effect in the prior year, organic revenue growth was still 11%.Adjusted EBITDA was 359 million for the second quarter, which was up 5% year-over-year. Adjusted EBITDA margin decreased from 11.8% to 10.4% over the same period. Excluding the VirnetX gain from the prior period, adjusted EBITDA margin increased by 140 basis points in the quarter. This was primarily due to strong program management, higher volumes on some fixed price programs and better direct labor utilization. Non-GAAP net income was 218 million for the second quarter, which was down 2% year-over-year and non-GAAP diluted EPS for the quarter was $1.52, also down 2% compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2020. Excluding the impact of VirnetX gain from last year's results, non-GAAP diluted EPS was up 37%. Our effective tax rate on non-GAAP income in the quarter was 24% compared to the 22% we anticipated for fiscal year 2021, this negatively impacted non-GAAP diluted EPS by $0.04. The tax rate increase was primarily across our international business. The largest single driver was that in Q2, we recognized the full impact of a recently enacted increase in the U.K. corporate tax rate from 19% to 25%.Now, for an overview of the segment results on Slide 6; Defense Solutions revenues increased by 14% compared to the prior year quarter. Excluding the acquisitions of 1901 Group and Gibbs & Cox, organic revenue was up 12%, primarily from ramping up recent contract wins such as NGEN and increased weapon systems development within Dynetics. Civil revenues increased 5% compared to the prior year quarter, with about half coming from the SD&A acquisition and half driven by increased demand on large programs such as Hanford site integration. Health revenues increased 62% compared to the prior year quarter, and all of that growth was organic. We had a large year-over-year increase on the DHMSM as well as a nice ramp on the new Military and Family Life Counseling program or MFLC. The largest increase, though, was in the VA disability examination business in our QTC subsidiary. Remember, this was the business hardest hit by the pandemic in the year-ago quarter and now volumes are higher than ever as we continue to work through the backlog of exams.On the margin front, Defense Solutions non-GAAP operating income margin for the quarter came in at 8.3%, which was up 20 basis points compared to the prior year quarter. Civil non-GAAP operating margin declined from 12.9% in the prior year quarter to 9.1% as we had fewer deliveries of our border and port security systems and airport screening systems.Finally, and most significantly, health non-GAAP operating income margin for the quarter was up to 17.8% compared to 5.3% in the prior year quarter. This quarter's strong margin performance benefited from the significantly increased revenue volume, but the year-over-year improvement was enabled by the strategic investments we made a year-ago to keep our workforce in place and ready to meet the coming customer demand.Turning now to cash flow and the balance sheet on Slide 7, operating cash flow for the quarter was 17 million and free cash flow, which is net of capital expenditures, was a usage of four million. During the second quarter, we settled the accounts receivable monetization program, which negatively affected our operating and free cash flow by $94 million. On a year-to-date basis, the AR monetization program is neutral to cash flow, and we do not plan to sell any more receivables. During the quarter, we used working capital to fund the start-up of new programs and the expansion of existing programs and drive strong organic growth. You can see this impact most clearly in the drawdown of advanced payments compared to last year.Cash generation from the business segments was right on plan for the first half of the year and actually ahead of last year. But that performance is overshadowed by one-time non-operational cash benefits in the first half of 2020. These include 225 million from the AR monetization program; 85 million from VirnetX; 48 million in CARES Act tax deferrals; and 103 million in lower cash taxes, which is just a timing issue. During the second quarter, we paid down 27 million of debt and returned 48 million to shareholders in quarterly dividends. As laid in Friday's 8-K, our Board of Directors approved a 6% increase in the dividend beginning in September. This is our first increase in two-years and reflects our confidence in the future outlook and commitment to shareholder returns. In addition, we paid net consideration of 376 million to acquire Gibbs & Cox, which positions us to provide a broad set of engineering solutions to the U.S. and international navies. Gibbs & Cox is contributing a little more than 100 million in revenues this year at margins above the Defense Solutions segment average, given its higher proportion of fixed price work.To finance the transaction, we borrowed 380 million with a one-year maturity at very attractive terms, no more than LIBOR plus 113 basis points. As of July 2, 2021, we had 338 million in cash and cash equivalents and 5.1 billion of debt. Last month, we established a commercial paper program for short-term liquidity management. Commercial paper will give us more flexibility at a lower cost than selling accounts receivables. Commercial paper is only available to us because our debt is investment grade, and we view our investment-grade rating as a strategic asset. Over the remainder of the year, our primary capital deployment priority will be debt pay down as we return to a normalized leverage ratio of three times. We remain committed to our long-term balanced capital deployment strategy, which consists of being appropriately levered and maintaining our investment-grade rating, returning a quarterly dividend to our shareholders reinvesting for growth, both organically and inorganically and returning excess cash to shareholders in a tax-efficient manner.On to the forward outlook. As shown on Slide 8, we are maintaining our guidance for fiscal year 2021, including revenue between 13.7 million and 14.1 billion, adjusted EBITDA margin between 10.5% and 10.7%; non-GAAP diluted earnings per share between $6.35 and $6.65; and operating cash flow at or above 875 million. As the year progresses, we normally tighten our guidance ranges, but there are a lot of forces at play, including worsening of the COVID situation with a more contagious Delta variant in stagnation in vaccination rates as well as ongoing challenges in the global supply chain, especially around computer chips. On revenues, NGEN is ramping well, but this is still a new customer and new contract. So we don't want to have an established history of order flow and don't want to get ahead of ourselves. The Intelligence Community award decisions have slowed noticeably, and we are also incrementally more cautious on the bounce back of the international airport screening market. So we are not forecasting a return to growth there until 2023.The Gibbs & Cox acquisition should keep us comfortably in our revenue range, but it likely won't put us above the range. We expect revenue to grow fairly linearly through the back half of the year from Q2 levels. Growth drivers in the third and fourth quarters include the full contribution of Gibbs & Cox, the continued ramp on NGEN, MFC and several other programs. Towards the end of the year, we expect the VA medical exams will begin to return to their pre-pandemic levels. On EBITDA margins, year-to-date performance in the second quarter was 11.1% to land in the guidance range for the year, adjusted EBITDA margin for the back half of the year will be around the same level as this quarter. Non-GAAP diluted EPS will generally follow revenue and margin. However, we are now forecasting the FY 2021 tax rate to be between 23% and 23.5% instead of our original 22% forecast, which slightly outweighs the accretion from Gibbs & Cox. In addition to the international tax headwinds I mentioned earlier, we are now forecasting a lower deduction for share-based compensation based on stock price performance over the first half of the year.Finally, we expect cash flow to follow our normal pattern and accelerate in the back half of the year to land us at the guided level. Over the past five-years, we have generated an average of 65% annual operating cash flow in the third and fourth quarters. That pattern will be slightly more pronounced this year as a result of the working capital that we have devoted in the first half of this year to drive 17% year-over-year growth. We have a detailed execution plan to achieve our operating cash flow guidance.And with that, I will turn the call over to Hector so we can take some questions.