
OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Second Quarter 2021 Generac Holdings Incorporated Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Mike Harris, Vice President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations. Sir, please begin.Michael W. Harris -- Vice President-Corporate Development & Investor Relations

 



Good morning, and welcome to our second quarter 2021 earnings call. I'd like to thank everyone for joining us this morning. With me today is Aaron Jagdfeld, President and Chief Executive Officer; and York Ragen, Chief Financial Officer. We will begin our call today by commenting on forward-looking statements. Certain statements made during this presentation, as well as other information provided from time to time by Generac or its employees, may contain forward-looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in these forward-looking statements.Please see our earnings release or SEC filings for a list of words or expressions that identify such statements and the associated risk factors. In addition, we will make reference to certain non-GAAP measures during today's call. Additional information regarding these measures, including reconciliation to comparable U.S. GAAP measures, is available in our earnings release and SEC filings.I will now turn the call over to Aaron.Aaron P. Jagdfeld -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Our second quarter results were incredibly strong with broad-based revenue growth of 68% and with all-time records once again for the company this quarter for net sales, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS. We're particularly proud of achieving this tremendous top-line growth, along with the record levels of adjusted earnings, despite the ongoing significant cost pressures, logistic challenge and various capacity constraints we faced in the quarter across the supply chain. I'd like to thank our teams for their ongoing commitment to our customers. Their dedication and tireless execution have helped us to largely overcome the incredible supply chain challenges that have become commonplace in today's post-pandemic operating environment.Second quarter revenue, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS were all ahead of our expectations. The revenue outperformance was highlighted by higher shipments of home standby generators, as build rates for the quarter were ahead of our previous guidance due to strong operational execution. Demand for home standby generators remains incredibly robust due to a variety of factors, including continued traction with the Home as a Sanctuary megatrend as well as significantly higher power outage activity over the past several quarters.Revenue from global C&I products also outperformed expectations during the quarter, both domestically and internationally, highlighted by national telecom and rental customers and growth within the European region. The revenue outperformance in these areas was partially offset by lower-than-expected shipments of portable generators, primarily due to supply chain constraints, which has led to lower preseason stocking levels with our retail channel partners.Adjusted EBITDA dollars were also ahead of our previous forecast, driven mainly by the higher shipping levels. But EBITDA margin was slightly below our expectations, given the higher input costs in the quarter.

 



Year-over-year overall net sales increased 68% to $920 million and also increased sequentially at a strong rate relative to the first quarter of 2021, which was the previous all-time record. The growth in the quarter was driven by broad-based strength across the business, as both residential and C&I products grew dramatically as compared to the prior year. The growth in residential products was led by robust shipments of home standby generators, which nearly doubled over the prior year due to record production levels. Additionally, shipments of PWRcell energy storage systems experienced tremendous growth, both over the prior year and sequentially, as demand for clean energy solutions continues to rise alongside the rapidly expanding solar plus storage market.Shipments of C&I products also grew significantly in the quarter as demand continued to recover of the prior-year COVID lows at an accelerated rate across a number of markets and geographies and are now solidly above 2019 levels. Adjusted EBITDA increased 77% as compared to the prior year, with the corresponding margin increasing 120 basis points and adjusted EPS increasing 71%.Now, discussing our second quarter results in more detail. Despite strong prior-year comparisons due to the emergence of the Home as a Sanctuary megatrend and elevated outage levels, home consultations or sales leads for home standby generators remained strong during the second quarter and increased approximately 50% as compared to the second quarter of 2020. Consistent with the trend seen over the past year, the strength was broad based across the U.S. with nearly all states experiencing growth again in the quarter with more than half of this -- half of all states showing triple growth -- triple-digit growth, led by Texas.Activations of home standby generators, which are a proxy for installations, also grew again at a strong rate compared to the prior year, with broad-based strength across all U.S. regions, including exceptional growth in the Northeast and South Central regions. Overall outage activity as measured on a trailing four-quarter basis continue to be much higher relative to the prior comparable period and was well above the long-term baseline average, helping to drive awareness of the home standby category.In addition, we continue to expand our distribution footprint, as we ended the second quarter with more than 8,000 residential dealers, adding over 300 new dealers in the quarter. The build-out of distribution remains a critical focus area, as we have added approximately 700 dealers since the start of the year and 1,300 dealers over the last 12 months, which includes the addition of a number of new dealers in California and Texas that represent nearly one-third of the increase.Early in the third quarter, these key demand metrics for home standby have continued to trend even higher relative to prior-year levels, including home consultations increasing at a strong double-digit rate. We believe the ongoing strength in the product category can be attributed to several factors, which are leading to home standby generators becoming more mainstream as homeowners have an increasing awareness of the need for power security as they are working, learning, shopping, entertaining and in general, spending more time in their homes.Earlier this month, we achieved a significant milestone by starting production of home standby generators at our new manufacturing facility in Trenton, South Carolina. This facility will provide much-needed capacity to further ramp our daily home standby build rates in an effort to reduce lead times, which remain elevated at approximately 28 weeks. With the successful start-up of Trenton, combined with a number of other capacity expansion activities, we're now anticipating higher production levels relative to previous expectations. And as a result, we have moderately increased our shipment outlook for these products during the second half of 2021. In addition, we remain on track to an approximate doubling of our current build rates by the end of the second quarter of 2022, which is nearly four times greater than our previous baseline output levels at the beginning of last year.I also want to provide an update on our rapidly growing clean energy product offering. As previously mentioned, we experienced a dramatic increase in shipments of PWRcell energy storage systems during the second quarter, which was aided in part by a softer prior-year comparison as the overall solar market was negatively impacted by a sharp drop in installations due to the onset of COVID-19 pandemic. Shipments of PWRcell systems also experienced strong growth sequentially, as we gained further traction in the rapidly expanding solar plus storage market.In addition to the strong revenue growth, key performance indicators for clean energy continue to show favorable trends. In-home and virtual consultations expanded at very strong rates as compared to the prior year, and sequential trends were also encouraging. System activations, which are a proxy for installations and commissioning, grew at a tremendous rate during the second quarter as compared to the prior year and also improved on a sequential basis. In addition, we further built out our installer network during the quarter and we ended the first half of the year with approximately 2,200 trained and certified dealers, with nearly 900 of those dealers registered on our PowerPlay CE selling system.As we indicated on the previous quarter's earnings call, demand for clean energy products has been outpacing supply, which is limiting our growth rates for the category. Throughout the second quarter, strong end-market dynamics around energy storage, coupled with our marketing and distribution initiatives, resulted in further strengthening of demand for clean energy products. In addition, our team has made important progress during the quarter with our supply chain execution regarding PWRcell energy storage components. As a result, we are increasing our full-year revenue outlook and now expect clean energy shipments to approximately double as compared to the prior year. In addition, we're driving profitable growth within the product category as we scale volumes and optimize the supply chain.As we've also discussed on recent calls, we have an exciting pipeline of innovative clean energy products expected to come to market over the next several quarters. These launches include generator integration with our PWRcell storage systems, the ability to more efficiently add a PWRcell system to an existing solar install, the launch of a new DC output generator that can be combined with solar and storage to allow an end user to operate independently of the power grid and a new load management system that will be paired with our existing PWRview energy monitoring platform to allow a homeowner to more fully control their power generation and consumption.In addition, we're making our PWRcell systems Smart Grid Ready, which will enable them to be used in virtual power plant applications using Enbala's Concerto software platform. We believe these product launches will further enhance our competitive position and differentiation in the energy storage, monitoring and management markets, as we look to further build out our clean energy offerings into a complete ecosystem of products and solutions for installers and end users.Consistent with this approach, in early July, we entered the large and growing microinverter market for solar applications with the acquisition of Chilicon Power. Based in Los Angeles, California, Chilicon is a designer and provider of grid-interactive microinverter and monitoring solutions for the solar market. Recall that the solar plus storage attachment rates are currently between 20% and 25%, which essentially means we weren't participating in 75% to 80% of the market that is focused on solar-only installations. This strategic acquisition will dramatically increase our served market and help us deepen our relationships with solar channel partners and installers, as we expand our clean energy product suite to include microinverters.Industry sources estimate the global market for microinverters and optimizers used in residential applications to be approximately $2.5 billion for 2020 and is projected to grow to approximately $4.5 billion by the end of 2023. We have a proven track record of developing leading energy solutions. And we intend to apply the same playbook that we have previously used for other acquisitions in this space with a focus on scaling the business through our innovative lead generation capabilities, our omnichannel distribution approach, the implementation of a variety of cost-out actions and by leveraging Generac's extensive supply chain expertise.I'd also like to provide a brief update on Enbala Power Networks, a leading grid services technology provider that we acquired last fall. We are making good progress with the deep integration of Enbala's Concerto software platform with our existing products. And today, we now have this Smart Grid Ready functionality available for all of our C&I natural gas generators, home standby generators and our PWRcell energy storage systems. Also over the last several quarters, Enbala has been working closely with Generac's commercial sales teams on potential projects with utilities, cooperatives and energy aggregators, which has led to a considerable increase in quoting and proposal activities for the business so far in 2021.As the market for grid services continues to develop, we believe combining our equipment hardware with Enbala's software is a critical first step by making Generac's products Smart Grid Ready, thereby allowing them to operate as distributed energy resources, known as DERs. These DERs can be aggregated into a virtual power plant or VPP solution and bundled with turnkey services that should enable us to improve our value proposition to end users, utilities and grid operators, allowing us to develop various new revenue streams in the years ahead. These will not only include the existing software as a service platform that Enbala currently offers, but could also include a variety of vertical operational services that enable a more turnkey solution and ultimately, even Performance Services that could deliver megawatts of power to various potential customers. The recent heat waves experienced in the U.S. this summer are an important example of the growing need for utilities and grid operators to expand their use of grid services and DER assets.At one point in late June, Enbala enabled the deployment of hundreds of megawatts of its connected fleet to maintain grid stability, predominantly in the Pacific Northwest and Northeast in response to the extreme temperatures that created enormous demand spikes for power in those regions. In these instances, the combination of grid services, software and systems, along with DER assets, were used for flexibility response purposes to supplement traditional power plants. We believe systems such as Enbala's Concerto platform and DER assets, like those provided by Generac, will become critically important going forward for utilities and grid operators, who will be tasked with providing stability and resiliency across their networks, as more renewable power, which is highly variable, is brought online and as end users dramatically increase their consumption with the electrification of everything from heating and cooling to transportation over the next decade.In addition to the great performance of our residential products in the second quarter, our C&I products also had a tremendous quarter, as demand across a number of markets and geographies continue to recover at a faster pace than we had previously expected.Net sales of C&I stationary generators through our North American distributor channel grew again in the quarter at a solid rate with quoting, project activity and order volumes further recovering from the pandemic-related lows of last year with growth well ahead of 2019 levels and we expect attractive growth for this channel for the full year.We're also experiencing encouraging growth with the Energy Systems business, our industrial distributor in Northern California that we acquired last year, as our investments, integration activities and overall increased focus are producing excellent results in this large and rapidly growing power generation market.Shipments in telecom -- national telecom customers increased significantly during the quarter as compared to the prior year and were well ahead of our expectations as capital spending by several of our larger telecom customers accelerated and led to a further increase in projected shipments during the current year. The catalyst for the additional spending on backup power in this important vertical continues to be driven by an elevated power outage environment over the last several years, the power security mandate in California requiring a minimum of 72 hours of backup power at all tower locations and the build-out of wireless carriers 5G networks. The long-term demand outlook for telecom backup power remains very compelling, driven by the increasingly critical nature of wireless communications as this infrastructure shifts to the next generation architecture.Shipments of mobile-generated -- mobile products to national rental account customers were also higher during the second quarter as compared to the very soft prior year, which was negatively impacted by the pandemic. We still expect shipments of mobile products for full-year 2021 to improve dramatically from prior-year levels, as national rental account customers significantly increase their spending on fleet equipment with utilization and rental rates continuing to improve. Longer term, we remain optimistic about demand for mobile products with the compelling megatrend around the critical need for infrastructure improvements, which could finally benefit from economic stimulus plans being pursued by the current administration.Additionally, we continue to gain important traction with our lead gas initiatives through increased quoting activity and improved project close rates for our natural gas generators used in applications beyond traditional emergency standby power generation, such as they're used in microgrids or other distributed generation applications.Quoting activity and the sales pipeline is growing significantly for these project opportunities. And revenue for these applications increased at a substantial rate during the second quarter as compared to the prior year. And the outlook has further increased for full-year 2021. This is an emerging part of our C&I business that had good momentum entering the year. And with the major winter-related outages in Texas and the extreme heat waves occurring this summer, we're seeing increased interest and demand for these solutions.To support the growing opportunities we see in our C&I business, we announced the closing of Deep Sea Electronics on June 1st, an advanced controls designer and manufacturer headquartered in the United Kingdom. We believe Deep Sea's high level of technical expertise and the added engineering bandwidth their team will give us will be critical to helping us develop and accelerate our product road map for the future, bolstering our electronics and controls capabilities and supporting further innovation to meet dynamic needs of the evolving energy technology solutions market.As we advance the use of our products and applications beyond standby power, the need for complex systems levels controls for distributed generation, storage and other DER assets used in microgrid applications will serve as a key enabler of the decentralization of the power grid in the future.Similar to our domestic C&I products, demand internationally has also rebounded strongly in recent quarters with shipments increasing at a core rate of 45% in the second quarter compared to the prior year. This growth was primarily due to strength in the European and Latin American regions, which experienced a sharp increase in demand as end markets recovered of the pandemic-induced prior-year lows. While some COVID-19 impacts and restrictions are still lingering in several international regions, larger project quoting and overall order activity continue to recover at a faster-than-expected pace. This is leading to growth in our international backlog at the end of the second quarter, with the order strength continuing early on here in the third quarter. Stronger organic growth combined with the Deep Sea acquisition are both driving our revenue outlook for the international segment higher than previously expected for the full year. In addition, adjusted EBITDA margins are expected to expand considerably in the second half of the year, primarily benefiting from the impact of the inclusion of Deep Sea's results as well as from improved operating leverage on the higher sales volumes.In closing this morning, we believe our recent strategic acquisitions are important examples of our ability to leverage our strong financial position to further expand our capabilities and advance our strategy as we continue our transition into an energy technology solutions company. We remain focused on developing innovative solutions that enable, protect and improve the efficiency of next-generation power, communications, transportation and other critical infrastructure. And going forward, we intend to continue investing aggressively in a number of strategic initiatives, both organically and through acquisitions that we believe can help to accelerate these efforts.I'd now like to turn the call over to York to provide further details on our second quarter results and our updated outlook for 2021. York?York A. Ragen -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Aaron. Looking at second quarter 2021 results in more detail. Net sales increased 68% to $920 million during the second quarter of 2021, an all-time record as compared to $546.8 million in the prior-year second quarter. The combination of the Energy Systems Mean Green, Enbala and Deep Sea acquisitions and the favorable impact from foreign currency had an approximate 4% impact on revenue growth during the quarter.Briefly looking at consolidated net sales for the second quarter by product class. Residential product sales increased 76% to $600 million, as compared to $341.4 million in the prior year. As Aaron already discussed in detail, home standby generator sales continue to experience robust growth, which nearly doubled during the second quarter, as shipments benefited from much higher production levels for these products as compared to the prior year. Shipments of PWRcell energy storage systems also grew at a dramatic rate as compared to the prior year as the solar plus storage market in the U.S. continues to rapidly expand and as we build out our marketing and distribution capabilities, selling into the clean energy space.Portable generators also increased at a solid rate versus prior year due to the higher power outage severity in recent quarters. And shipments of chore products also improved at a strong rate, in part due to the electrification of our product lines.Commercial and industrial product net sales for the second quarter of 2021 increased 64% to $154.3 million as compared to $154.9 million in the prior-year quarter. There was an approximate 7% benefit to net sales during the quarter from the impacts of the Deep Sea acquisition and favorable foreign currency.The very strong core revenue growth was, in part, aided by the softer prior-year comparison due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, C&I revenue also grew 6% on a core basis as compared to 2019 levels. The strength in shipments compared to prior year was due to broad-based growth across a number of markets and geographies as demand is recovering at an accelerated rate, both domestically and internationally in the following areas. Domestically, the growth was due to a substantial increase in shipments to telecom national account customers, resulting from much higher capital spending as they continue to harden their wireless networks.Shipments of mobile products recovered significantly compared to the soft prior-year comparison as our rental account customers accelerated their fleet replacement, given higher utilization and rental rates. Also contributing to the increase was solid growth with our industrial distributors, as well as an increase in other project opportunities as we gain traction with our lead gas initiatives.Internationally, the increase in C&I products, as previously mentioned, was primarily due to an increase in market activity, mostly in the European and Latin American regions that are recovering sharply from the impacts of the pandemic that existed during the prior year.Net sales for the other products and services category, primarily made up of aftermarket service parts, product accessories, extended warranty revenue, remote monitoring and grid services subscription revenue and other service offerings, increased 30% to $65.7 million as compared to $50.6 million in the second quarter of 2020. There was an approximate 9% benefit to net sales during the quarter from the impacts of the Energy Systems and Enbala acquisitions and favorable foreign currency.In addition, we experienced very strong growth in aftermarket service parts, as a result of the higher power outage activity in recent quarters. A larger and growing installed base of our products and additional extended warranty revenue also contributed to the increase versus prior year.Gross profit margin was 36.9% as compared to 38.2% in the prior-year second quarter, which was impacted by higher input costs in the current year that were partially offset by improved pricing and more favorable overhead absorption from the higher sales volumes. Operating expenses increased $37.4 million or 31.3% as compared to the second quarter of 2020, but declined 460 basis points as a percentage of revenue, excluding intangible amortization due to the strong operating leverage on substantially higher sales volumes in the current year quarter. As a result, adjusted EBITDA before deducting for noncontrolling interests, as defined in our earnings release, was an all-time record of $217.7 million or 23.7% of net sales as compared to $123.1 million or 22.5% of net sales in the prior year. This 120 basis point improvement in EBITDA margin was primarily the result of the improved leverage of the fixed operating expenses on the much higher sales volumes, being partially offset by the aforementioned decline in gross margin.I will now briefly discuss financial results for our two reporting segments. Domestic segment sales increased 70% to $784.1 million as compared to $460.8 million in the prior-year quarter, with the impact of acquisitions contributing approximately 2% of the revenue growth for the quarter. Adjusted EBITDA for the segment was $203.9 million or 26% of net sales as compared to $121.3 million in the prior year or 26.3% of net sales. International segment sales increased 57.8% to $135.8 million as compared to $86.1 million in the prior-year quarter, with the impact of acquisitions and foreign currency contributing approximately 13% of the revenue growth for the quarter. Going forward, the financial results for Deep Sea Electronics will be included in our international segment, primarily within C&I product class. Adjusted EBITDA for the segment before deducting for noncontrolling interests was $13.7 million or 10.1% of net sales as compared to $1.9 million or 2.2% of net sales in the prior year. The increase in international segment margin was primarily due to improved operating leverage on the higher sales volumes and the impact of the Deep Sea acquisition.Now, switching back to our financial performance for the second quarter of 2021 on a consolidated basis. As disclosed in our earnings release, GAAP net income attributable to the company in the quarter was $127 million as compared to $66.1 million for the second quarter of 2020. GAAP income taxes during the current year second quarter was $46.4 million or an effective tax rate of 26.6% as compared to $18.5 million or an effective tax rate of 22.5% for the prior year.The increase in effective tax rate was primarily due to a discrete tax item, resulting from a legislative tax rate change in the United Kingdom, which revalued deferred tax liabilities by $7 million or approximately 4% tax rate impact during the current year quarter.Diluted net income per share for the company on a GAAP basis was $2.01 in the second quarter of 2021 compared to $1.02 in the prior year. Adjusted net income for the company, as defined in our earnings release, was $153.2 million in the current year quarter or $2.39 per share, which was also an all-time record. This compares to an adjusted net income of $88.5 million in the prior year or $1.40 per share. Cash income taxes for the second quarter of 2021 were $37.4 million as compared to $13.9 million in the prior-year quarter. The current year reflects an expected cash income tax rate of approximately 21% to 21.5% for the full-year 2021, which is higher than the previously expected rate of approximately 20.5% for 2021, primarily the result of higher intangible amortization from the Deep Sea acquisition, which is not deductible for tax purposes.Also, the 21% to 21.5% cash tax rate compares to the prior-year rate of 17% that was anticipated in the second quarter of 2020. The increase in the current year cash tax rate versus prior year is primarily due to a significant increase in domestic pre-tax income, which is taxed at a higher statutory rate. Cash flow from operations was once again robust at $122.5 million as compared to $101.8 million in the prior-year second quarter. And free cash flow, as defined in our earnings release, was $96.3 million as compared to $89 million in the same quarter last year. Both operating and free cash flow represented records for the second quarter of the year. The increase in cash flow was primarily due to higher operating earnings in the current year quarter, which was partially offset by a higher level of income taxes paid and capital expenditures in the current year, which included the new facility in Trenton, South Carolina.Before discussing our updated outlook for 2021, I want to comment briefly on our strong liquidity position at the end of the second quarter of 2021. In May, we amended our ABL facility, increasing its size from $300 million to $500 million and extending the maturity dates from June 2023 to May 2026, along with reducing the LIBOR spread to 100 basis points to 125 basis points, depending on availability under the revolver. As of June 30th 2021, we had $830 million of liquidity, comprised of $390 million of cash on hand and $440 million of availability on the ABL revolver. Also, total debt outstanding at the end of the second quarter was $871 million, net of unamortized original issue discount and deferred financing costs. Our gross debt leverage ratio at the end of the second quarter was only 1.1 times on an as-reported basis.Further enhancing this attractive capital structure is our strong cash flow profile, with free cash flow over the last 12 months at $561 million, which allows us to confidently operate our business, accelerate our strategy and further enhance shareholder value.I would now like to provide some additional details on our increased outlook for full-year 2021. As Aaron highlighted earlier, there are several areas of the business where we are performing better than expected. And as a result, we are raising our full-year revenue outlook for 2021. In particular, the company continues to make better-than-expected progress and increasing production rates for home standby generators and as a result, we are moderately increasing our shipment outlook for these products for full-year 2021. In addition, we are experiencing stronger-than-expected demand for our PWRcell energy storage systems and combined with additional supply chain execution and the closing of the recent Chilicon acquisition, we are also increasing our shipment outlook for clean energy products as well. The outlook for C&I products has also improved due to a further broad-based rebound in demand, highlighted by a continued pickup in activity from telecom national account customers, overall stronger demand from international markets and the closing of the Deep Sea acquisition. As a result of these factors, we are increasing our full-year 2021 net sales guidance to now be approximately 47% to 50% growth compared to the prior year, which includes approximately 3% of favorable impact from acquisitions and foreign currency. This is an increase from our previous as-reported guidance of 40% to 45% growth, with the majority of the improvement being organic growth. Importantly, this guidance assumes a level of power outages for the remainder of the year, in line with the long-term baseline average. Consistent with our historical approach this outlook does not assume the benefit of another major power outage event in the second half of the year.Looking at seasonality for the second half of the year. Revenue is expected to increase sequentially in the third quarter as compared to the second quarter with an even higher sequential improvement anticipated for the fourth quarter as we further scale home standby production and clean energy shipments.Updating our margin outlook for the full year 2021. We continue to experience higher input costs relative to our previous guidance due to rising commodities and significantly higher logistics costs. To address these higher input costs, we implemented additional pricing actions during the second quarter across our product lines and we continue to focus on cost reduction initiatives through our profitability enhancement program. However, given our current backlog situation, we do not expect to realize these margin enhancements until the fourth quarter and into 2022. As a result of these factors, we now expect gross margins for full-year 2021 to be approximately flat as compared to the prior year, which compares to the previous expectation of an approximate 50 basis point increase. Adjusted EBITDA margins before deducting for noncontrolling interests are now expected to be approximately 24.5% to 25% as compared to the previous guidance range of 24.5% to 25.5% and up from the 23.5% margin in the prior year.From a seasonality perspective, we expect adjusted EBITDA margins during the third quarter to be slightly lower relative to the second quarter, primarily due to the start-up of the Trenton, South Carolina facility and higher operating expense investments. However, adjusted EBITDA margin is forecasted to improve sequentially in the fourth quarter, returning closer to the first quarter levels as a result of pricing realization, improved sales mix, favorable overhead absorption and other margin enhancement initiatives.Several additional guidance items that we provide to assist with modeling adjusted earnings per share and free cash flow also require updating for 2021. As mentioned previously, our cash income tax rate is now expected to be approximately 21% to 21.5% for the full-year 2021, which is higher than the previously expected rate of approximately 20.5% for 2021. Interest expense is now expected to be approximately $32 million, assuming no additional principal payments and flat LIBOR rates for the remainder of the year. This compares to the previous guidance of approximately $34 million with the decline primarily due to a lower weighted average interest rate for the year.Our capital expenditures for 2021 as a percentage of forecasted net sales are now projected to be at the higher end of the previous guidance range of between 2.5% to 3% due to additional capacity expansion actions.GAAP intangible amortization expense for 2021 is now forecast to be approximately $49 million to $50 million as compared to the previous guidance of approximately $34 million to $35 million, which is due to the closing of the Deep Sea and Chilicon acquisitions and the related preliminary purchase price allocations.Stock compensation expense is now expected to be approximately $24 million, which is the high end of the previous guidance range of between $20 million to $24 million, also due to the recent acquisitions.Finally, the following remaining miscellaneous guidance items remain unchanged. Our GAAP effective tax rate is still expected to be between 22.5% to 23.5% for the full year. Depreciation expense is still forecast to be approximately $40 million in 2021, given our assumed capital spending guidance. Operating and free cash flow generation for the full-year 2021 is expected to remain strong with the conversion of adjusted net income to free cash flow still anticipated to be approximately 90% and our full-year diluted share count is still expected to be approximately 64 million to 64.5 million shares.This concludes our prepared remarks. At this time, we'd like to open up the call for questions.