  OperatorHello, and welcome to the AMD first quarter 2022 earnings call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Laura Graves, corporate vice president, investor relations. Laura, please go ahead.Laura Graves -- Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, and welcome to AMD's first quarter 2022 financial results conference call. By now, you should have had the opportunity to review a copy of our earnings press release and accompanying slides. If you have not reviewed these documents, they can be found on the investor relations page of amd.com. Today, we will discuss AMD first quarter results, including partial quarter contributions from the acquisition of Xilinx, which closed on February 14, 2022.

 



 We will also discuss AMD results on a stand-alone basis for the first quarter of 2022. We will refer primarily to non-GAAP financial measures during this call. The full non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations are available in today's press release and in the slides posted on our website. Participants on today's conference call are Dr.Lisa Su, our chair and chief executive officer; and Devinder Kumar, our executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer. Victor Peng, president of AMD's adaptive & embedded computing group, will also join us for Q&A. This is a live call and will be replayed via webcast on our website. Before we begin, I would like to note AMD will host its 2022 financial analyst day on Thursday, June 9, and our second quarter quiet time is expected to begin at the close of business on Friday, June 17. Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of today and, as such, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to the cautionary statement in our press release for more information on factors that could cause actual results to differ. With that, I would like to turn the call over to Lisa Su. Lisa? Lisa Su -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Laura, and good afternoon to all those listening in today. For the last several years, we have been on a journey to both scale and transform AMD. We have consistently executed our strategy, expanded our portfolio of leadership products and diversified our business all while driving best-in-class growth. We reached a significant inflection point in our journey during the first few months of 2022 as we took several major steps that fundamentally reshaped our business. In addition to delivering record financial results, we closed our strategic acquisition of Xilinx and announced our plans to acquire Pensando. The strategic importance of the Xilinx acquisition to our long-term goals cannot be overstated. As the industry's No. 1 provider of FPGA and adaptive computing solutions, Xilinx significantly expands our technology and product portfolio. Xilinx also adds multiple high-margin long-term revenue streams, spanning a new set of markets and customers, further strengthening and diversifying our business model. Importantly, Xilinx has successfully executed its own growth strategy in recent years with the increased adoption of adaptive silicon across data center, communications, automotive and other large embedded markets. With Pensando, we will further expand our data center solutions capabilities. Pensando will add a proven team that has developed an industry-leading DPU and software stack already deployed with key customers, including IBM, HPE, Microsoft, Oracle and Goldman Sachs. Pensando's differentiated technology further expands our product portfolio and will enable AMD to innovate at the silicon, software and platform levels to deliver leadership solutions for our cloud, enterprise and edge customers. Now, turning to our first quarter financial performance. We started the year very strong with record quarterly revenue and net income. First quarter revenue, including the contributions from six weeks of Xilinx, grew 71% year over year to a record $5.9 billion.

 



 We expanded gross margin 7 percentage points to 53% and more than doubled both operating and net income year over year. Excluding Xilinx, revenue grew 55% year over year to a record $5.3 billion, gross margin expanded 5 percentage points to 51% and operating income more than doubled to a record $1.6 billion. Turning to our Computing and Graphics segment. Revenue increased 33% year over year to $2.8 billion, driven primarily by the ramp of our latest Ryzen and Radeon products. Client Compute revenue grew by a strong double-digit percentage year over year based on higher Ryzen mobile and desktop processor sales. As a result, we believe we gained client processor revenue share for the eighth straight quarter. In desktop, we expanded our processor portfolio with the introduction of seven new Ryzen CPUs, including the Ryzen 5800 X3D CPU, which is the industry's fastest gaming CPU and first desktop processor featuring 3D stack chiplets. In notebooks, record mobile processor revenue was driven by the launch of our Rembrandt Ryzen 6000 mobile processors that extend the leadership compute, gaming and battery life capabilities of our mobile processors. In commercial, we recently introduced our latest Ryzen 6000 Pro processors with leadership performance and battery life and modern security and manageability features. We are well positioned to accelerate our growth in commercial notebooks in 2022 based on the expanded number of design wins on track to launch. Although the PC market is experiencing some softness coming off multiple quarters of near-record unit shipments, our focus remains on the premium, gaming and commercial portions of the market where we see strong growth opportunities, and we expect to continue gaining overall client revenue share. In Graphics, revenue grew by a strong double-digit percentage year over year with record desktop graphics channel sales. Desktop GPU sales nearly doubled year over year as sales of our Radeon 6000 Series graphics cards were strong. In mobile, the first notebooks featuring our latest Radeon 6000 mobile GPUs launched in the quarter, and we expect sales to ramp over the coming quarters. Data center graphics revenue was flat year over year as we launched our Instinct MI210 accelerators. We expanded our engagements with large cloud customers in the quarter and launched our ROCm 5 software suite targeting exascale-class HPC and AI applications. Turning to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment. Revenue increased 88% year over year to $2.5 billion, driven by record server semi-custom and embedded processor sales. Semi-Custom sales grew by a significant double-digit percentage year over year based on strong demand for Sony and Microsoft consoles, as well as Valve's new Steam deck. Sales for this game console generation continued to outpace all prior generations, and we expect 2022 to be a record year for our Semi-Custom business. Turning to our Embedded business. Revenue more than doubled year over year, led by growth in automotive. We also secured multiple design wins in next-generation security and firewall devices from Tier 1 networking providers. Turning to Server. We had another record quarter as revenue more than doubled year over year and increased by a double-digit percentage sequentially. We have more than doubled server processor revenue year over year in eight of the last 10 quarters, highlighting the growing demand for our EPYC processors with cloud, enterprise and HPC customers. Cloud revenue more than doubled year over year as hyperscalers expanded their internal infrastructure deployments, and 70 new AMD-powered instances launched from Alibaba, Amazon, Baidu Cloud, Microsoft Azure, Google and others. There are now more than 460 AMD-based cloud instances available from the largest hyperscalers, with additional instances on track to launch in the coming quarters. In Enterprise, revenue more than doubled year over year with strong growth in key verticals, including IT infrastructure, financial services and database applications. Our sales pipeline continues to be very strong, and we saw our win rate grow in the first quarter across a broad set of Enterprise end customers. We launched our first EPYC processors with 3D-stacked chiplets in the quarter. This technology extends our performance leadership in technical computing workloads by up to 66% compared to our prior generation. Atos, Cisco, Dell, HPE, Lenovo and Supermicro all launched servers featuring the new CPUs in the quarter. Excitement for our next-generation Genoa server processors continues to grow as we expanded customer and partnering sampling in the quarter. We expect Genoa will be the industry's highest-performance general-purpose server CPU, further extending the performance, energy efficiency and TCO advantages of our EPYC processors. We remain on track to launch Genoa in the second half of the year and expect to continue our share gain trajectory based on expanded cloud, enterprise and HPC customer adoption. In addition, development of our higher core count Bergamo processors optimized for high throughput cloud workloads continues to progress well, with shipments on track to begin in the first half of 2023. Turning to the Xilinx business. For the six weeks following acquisition close, Xilinx revenue was $559 million. On a pro forma basis for the full quarter, Xilinx delivered its fourth straight quarter of greater than 20% year-over-year revenue growth and the second straight quarter of greater than $1 billion of revenue. In data center, first quarter demand was led by expanded FPGA-as-a-Service and SmartNIC deployments at Tier 1 hyperscalers, as well as low latency networking solutions with fintech companies. We saw strength in communications led by wired demand and access and optical transport. In wireless, Versal-based 5G deployments continue ramping in multiple regions, and we secured a strategic design win with a Tier 1 communications equipment provider to power their next-gen baseband solutions with a Versal ACAP solution. We saw strong demand across the Xilinx embedded markets, led by record pro forma full quarter revenue in automotive, industrial, vision and healthcare and consumer. Looking forward, we see very strong demand across all of the Xilinx end markets and are focused on increasing supply. Turning to our integration work. In the first few months since close, we have seen tremendous excitement from our customers, partners and employees, and we expect to see significant product and revenue synergies. We now have the best portfolio of high-performance and adaptive computing engines in the industry, and we see multiple opportunities to leverage our expanded technology portfolio to deliver even stronger products. As one example, we're integrating Xilinx' differentiated AI engine across our CPU product portfolio to enable industry-leading inference capabilities with the first products expected in 2023. We have also identified significant additional revenue synergy opportunities with some of our largest customers as we can now address a larger portion of their compute needs with our expanded product portfolio. In summary, the start of 2022 is a significant inflection point for AMD, marked by record top and bottom line financial results, driven by our leadership product portfolio and strong execution and the close of our Xilinx acquisition. We have now delivered greater than 45% year-over-year revenue growth for seven straight quarters and increased net income by more than 60% year over year for the last 10 quarters. Based on higher AMD organic growth, as well as the addition of Xilinx with strong demand across multiple end markets, we now expect annual revenue to grow by approximately 60% year over year, up from approximately 31% growth we guided at the beginning of the year. Longer term, I'm incredibly excited about our additional growth opportunities as we add the Xilinx and Pensando teams. We now see a significantly larger TAM opportunity for AMD across a diverse set of end markets based on our broader portfolio of leadership compute engines and expanded solutions capabilities. I look forward to sharing more about the products and technologies that will enable the next stage of our growth journey at financial analyst day in June. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Devinder to provide some additional color on our first quarter financial performance. Devinder?Devinder Kumar -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Thank you, Lisa, and good afternoon, everyone. The first quarter was an excellent start to the year with strong demand for our leadership products resulting in record quarterly revenue, continued gross margin expansion, record profitability and record cash flow generation. In addition, we are very pleased to have closed the Xilinx transaction and announced our intention to acquire Pensando. First quarter consolidated revenue was $5.9 billion, up 71% from a year ago, driven by significant growth across all businesses and the inclusion of Xilinx revenue for the partial period. Excluding the Xilinx contribution, AMD revenue was $5.3 billion, up 55% from a year ago, with data center revenue doubling year over year. Gross margin was 53%, up 660 basis points from a year ago, driven by higher server processor revenue and high-margin Xilinx revenue. Gross margin for AMD, excluding Xilinx, was 51%, up 480 basis points year over year, primarily driven by higher server processor revenue. Operating expenses were $1.3 billion compared to $830 million a year ago as we increased investments in our long-term product road maps to support the future growth of our business. Operating income more than doubled from a year ago to a record $1.8 billion, up $1.1 billion, primarily driven by significant revenue growth and higher gross margin. Operating margin was 31%, up from 22% a year ago. Net income was a record $1.6 billion, up $947 million from a year ago. Diluted earnings per share was $1.13 per share compared to $0.52 per share a year ago. Now, turning to first quarter business segment results. Computing and Graphics segment revenue was $2.8 billion, up 33% year over year, driven by higher client and graphics processor revenue. Computing and Graphics segment operating income was $723 million or 26% of revenue compared to $485 million or 23% of revenue a year ago. The increase in operating income was driven primarily by higher revenue, partially offset by higher operating expenses. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment revenue was $2.5 billion, up 88% from $1.3 billion in the prior year. The strong revenue increase was driven by higher Server, Semi-Custom and Embedded revenue. EESC segment operating income grew significantly to $881 million or 35% of revenue compared to $277 million or 21% of revenue a year ago. The higher operating income and margin were driven by increased revenue, richer product mix and an $83 million licensing gain. Xilinx revenue for the partial quarter was $559 million with operating income of $233 million or 42% of revenue. On a pro forma basis for the full quarter, Xilinx generated over $1 billion of revenue, up 22% compared to a year ago, with growth across all Xilinx' major end market categories. We are on track to achieve our cost synergy goals for the acquisition and expect the addition of Xilinx to be accretive to non-GAAP earnings per share for 2022. Turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $6.5 billion at the end of the first quarter. We deployed $1.9 billion to repurchase common stock in the first quarter. To date, we have utilized $3.7 billion of our initial $4 billion stock repurchase program. We also announced a new $8 billion share repurchase program during the quarter. In total, we had $8.3 billion in remaining authorization at the end of the first quarter. Quarterly free cash flow was a record $924 million compared to $832 million in the same quarter last year and $736 million in the prior quarter. We successfully executed a five-year $3 billion sustainability-linked credit facility to replace our existing $500 million facility. This further demonstrates our commitment to our corporate ESG goals. Inventory was $2.4 billion, up $476 million from the prior quarter due to the addition of Xilinx inventory. Before I turn to our financial outlook, let me cover our financial segment reporting. Beginning with the second quarter of fiscal 2022, we plan to change our segment reporting to the following four segments: Data Center, Client, Gaming and Embedded, which will align our financial reporting with our strategic end markets. I look forward to sharing further details with you at our financial analyst day. Today's outlook is based on current expectations and contemplates the current global supply environment and customer demand signals. For the second quarter of 2022, we expect revenue to be approximately $6.5 billion, plus or minus $200 million, an increase of approximately 69% year over year and approximately 10% quarter over quarter. The year-over-year increase is expected to be driven by the addition of Xilinx revenue plus higher server, semi-custom and client revenue. The quarter-over-quarter increase is expected to be primarily driven by Xilinx revenue plus higher server revenue. In addition, for Q2 2022, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 54%, non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $1.56 billion or 24% of revenue, non-GAAP interest expense, taxes and other to be approximately $270 million based on the 13% effective tax rate and the diluted share count to be approximately 1.64 billion shares. For the full year 2020, 2022 we now expect revenue to be approximately $26.3 billion, an increase of approximately 60%, driven by Xilinx and higher Server and Semi-Custom revenue. We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 54%, non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately 24% of revenue, non-GAAP effective tax rate to be 13% and non-GAAP cash tax rate to be approximately 10% due primarily to U.S. tax requirement to capitalize R&D and the full utilization of our U.S. net operating losses and tax credits in 2022. Fiscal year 2022 will be a 53-week year and include an additional week in the fourth quarter. In closing, we had an excellent start to 2022 with strong revenue growth across all businesses. We are pleased to have completed the Xilinx acquisition, which strengthens our business model with revenue diversification, accretive gross margin and increased cash generation. We are very delighted to welcome the Xilinx team to AMD. Looking ahead, AMD is very well positioned for long-term growth, margin expansion and cash generation, driven by our leadership products and road maps. With that, I will turn the call back over to Laura to begin the Q&A portion of our call. Laura?Laura Graves -- Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you very much, Devinder. Operator, we're ready to go ahead and begin our first question. 