
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded on July 21, 2021.I would now like to turn the call over to Dave Cresci, Investor Relations Manager at MarketAxess. Please go ahead.David Cresci -- Investor Relations Manager

 



Good morning and welcome to the MarketAxess Second Quarter 2021 Conference Call. For the call, Rick McVey, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will review the highlights for the quarter. Chris Concannon, President and COO, will discuss automation and product expansion. And then, Tony DeLise, Chief Financial Officer, will review the financial results.Before I turn the call over to Rick, let me remind you that today's call may include forward-looking statements. These statements represent the Company's beliefs regarding future events that by their nature are uncertain. Company's actual results and financial condition may differ materially from what is indicated in those forward-looking statements. For discussion of some of the risks and factors that could affect the Company's future results, please see the description of risk factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year-end, December 31, 2020. I would also direct you to read the forward-looking statement disclaimer in our quarterly earnings release, which was issued earlier this morning, and is now available on our website.Now, let me turn the call over to Rick.Richard M. McVey -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Good morning and thank you for joining us to review our second-quarter results. Quiet market conditions in global credit markets led to a soft quarter with revenue of $176 million, down 5%. Operating income was $87 million and operating margin was 49%. Diluted EPS of $1.77, down 20% year-over-year. Year-over-year comparisons were challenging when looking at Q2 last year when our revenue was up 47% and EPS was up 73%. However, two-year compound annual growth rates show strong revenue growth of 19% and operating income growth of 20% this quarter versus the second quarter of 2019, consistent with our long-term growth rates. Market share levels this quarter in high-grade and high-yield were similar to last year. FINRA has also announced that they will revise their historical TRACE market volumes on July 26 to adjust for the rapid increase in double counting for fixed income ETFs volume. We will revisit our market share estimates once we see the adjustments from FINRA. We continue to add active clients to our network and for the quarter, we set new records with 1,840 firms active globally. Emerging markets growth was the highlight for the quarter, with volume up 11% year-over-year, while total EM market volumes were down an estimated 17%. Our estimated EM market share set new highs for the quarter.We are encouraged by the ongoing progress in municipal bond trading with record volume during the quarter. International clients represented 32% of our global volume in the second quarter, a new record for geographic client diversification. Earlier this week, we announced that Charles Li, the former Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited, has joined the MarketAxess Board of Directors. Charles brings extensive experience in market structure, exchanges, and electronic trading, and will add important experience to our Board, especially in the Asia region.Slide 4 provides an update on market conditions. Subdued market conditions led to much lower credit market volumes in the second quarter. Institutional investors report lower fixed-income trading activity and ETF market participants were much wider than normal, especially in high-yield. For the quarter, high-grade corporate bond indices were locked in an 8 basis point trading range, following a range of 138 basis points, one year ago. TRACE high-grade volume was down 20% and TRACE high-yield volume down 14% versus last year. Fixed income ETF share trading was down 31% in the second quarter versus last year. The lower left chart shows the normal deviations in high-grade and high-yield share gains versus a multi-year linear regression. We have been through quiet trading periods before and fully expect a mean reversion for market volatility and trading volumes. We remain optimistic that the increase in fixed income trading automation and the all-to-all trading will lead to an increase in trading velocity. Treasury yields ticked up during the second quarter, but have since moved lower once again. Treasury yields impact corporate bond duration and also our high-grade fee capture.Slide 5 provides an update on Open Trading. Our unique Open Trading liquidity pool continues to drive important transaction cost savings to our clients, in spite of the low-volatility environment. Clients saved an estimated $127 million in transaction costs during the quarter due to price improvements in Open Trading. The vast majority of investor and dealer-initiated orders on MarketAxess are available in one single liquidity pool. On an average, our network delivered 29,000 orders per day and over $15 billion in notional value into the Open Trading central marketplace. We believe that our unique global institutional network with over 1,800 active firms in Open Trading, increases trading opportunities, reduces transaction costs, and reduces market risk during high volatility periods. Our dealer-initiated Open Trading volume was up 28% year-over-year. Dealers are finding great value in both making markets and taking liquidity on the MarketAxess system. The D2D client segment is moving rapidly to embrace electronic trading solutions. We are also pleased with the early success in our diversity dealer initiative. We have now onboarded 12 minority and women-owned dealers for the new program, and diversity dealer volume with investors is up 90% year-over-year in early days. This is a great example of using Open Trading to expand important trading relationships for investors and dealers.

 



Now, let me turn the call over to Chris to provide an update on new products and trading automation.Chris Concannon -- President and Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Rick. Slide 6 provides an update on our investment in new products and protocols. We recently announced enhancements to our portfolio trading solution, including integrating -- integrated net spotting and hedging capabilities, supported through the MarketAxess Rates platform. Since the technology release in late May, more than 95 portfolio trades have been completed on MarketAxess, with 27 unique investor firms and 10 dealers. While portfolio trading makes up a small portion of the market, somewhere between 4% and 5% of TRACE, we are committed to further enhancing our portfolio trading solution. Our Mid-X Sessions protocol was launched in the fall of 2020 and has seen significant adoption. $2.5 billion in Eurobond volume was traded through Mid-X in the second quarter, up 79% from the prior quarter. We expect to expand Mid-X to US credit products in the second half of this year.Shifting focus to new product areas, municipal bond trading on MarketAxess grew to a record $6.8 billion in the quarter. Also within the quarter, we announced the completed acquisition of MuniBrokers, which transacts approximately $330 million in municipal bond volume per day, which is currently not included in our muni bond volume totals. Our MarketAxess Rates offering is expanding beyond our initial click to trade solution with RFQ being launched this month, and our all-to-all Open Trading functionality for treasuries, launching later this year. We continue to deliver our clients with a choice of trading protocols across the full breadth of fixed income products, supported by a combination of dealer and all-to-all liquidity.Slide 7 demonstrates our continued momentum of automation in credit trading. Automated trading on MarketAxess reached new records in the quarter, growing to $41.5 billion in volume and over 218,000 trades. 98 firms leveraged our automated trading protocols in the quarter, up from 86 the year prior. Today, Auto-X represents 17% of total trade count and 6% of our total volume. The use of dealer algorithms is continuing to grow on the platform with approximately 4.6 million algo responses in the second quarter, up 30% from the same period last year. We've also seen continued adoption of our Auto Responder functionality Auto Responder allows client firms to automatically respond with liquidity based on a set of pre-defined criteria. This functionality is a critical step in helping clients avoid the cost of regularly crossing this spread.Slide 8 provides a summary of our trading volume across product categories. Our US high-grade volumes were down 22% year-over-year to $324 billion for the quarter, largely due to a significant decline in market volumes and benign market conditions in the second quarter. Estimated US high-grade TRACE market volumes were down 16% [Phonetic] year-over-year. Volumes in our other credit category were up 5% year-over-year to 2 -- to $345 billion for the quarter. Our trading volume in emerging markets bonds and Eurobonds outpaced the change in estimated market volumes. Similar to US high-grade, the most significant factor weighing on the decline in our US high-yield trading volume was the double-digit decline in estimated market volumes. Our Green Bond trading initiative continues to support clients' ESG-related investment mandates. In the second quarter, over 13 billion worth of Green Bonds were traded on our platform, resulting in over 65,000 trees being planted. We have now planted over 131,000 trees since the beginning of the year, which nearly surpasses our 2020 full-year record.Now, let me turn the call over to Tony to provide an update on our financials.Antonio L. DeLise -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Chris. On slide 9, we provide a summary of our quarterly earnings performance. Revenue was $176 million, down 5% year-over-year. Commissions were 9% lower, resulting from the 10% decline in credit trading volume. Post-trade services revenue more than doubled to $9.8 million and reflects $3.8 million of trade reporting revenue from clients added through the regulatory reporting of acquisition and healthy organic growth driven by new clients and new services. Information services revenue was up 17% year-over-year, principally due to recurring data sales. The weaker dollar favorably impacted both post-trade and information services revenue, each by around $600,000.Operating income was $87 million, down 16% year-over-year and operating margin was 49.4% in the second quarter. If we excluded the impact of the acquisition-related intangible amortization expense and non-recurring integration costs, operating margin would have been 52%. Despite weaker market volumes and difficult market conditions, we continue to add personnel and invest in organic and inorganic initiatives. The effective tax rate was 21.4% on a year-to-date basis. We expect the effective tax rate to vary quarter to quarter in the second half of the year and are maintaining our full-year effective tax rate guidance of 22% to 24%.On slide 10, we have laid out our commission revenue, trading volumes. and fees per million. On a composite basis, the majority of the 13% decrease in credit transaction fees were driven by a decline in estimated market volumes. Lower rates transaction fees was due principally to a decline in estimated US Treasury market volumes. US high-grade fee per million was down around 4% on both the sequential and year-over-year basis. We didn't make any fee plan changes during the quarter and the sequential decrease was due to a variety of factors, including slightly lower duration. Our other credit category fee per million of $194 was lower than both the first quarter 2021 and second quarter 2020 levels, due principally to the impact of the change in product mix and shift in protocols. During the second quarter, there was a heavier weighting to emerging markets in Eurobond volume and a lighter weighting to high-yield volume. The increase in other credit distribution fees was principally due to the inclusion of MuniBrokers subscription and license fees of $1.1 million. In the near term, we expect these subscription and license fees will run around $1.3 million per quarter.Slide 11 provides you with the expense detail. Second-quarter expenses were up 11% year-over-year. Excluding the $5.1 million of operating expenses, amortization of acquired intangibles, and non-recurring integration costs related to the regulatory reporting of the MuniBrokers businesses, expenses were up 4% year-over-year. Sequentially, expenses were down 3.1%. Approximately half of the decline in compensation and benefits was due to lower variable incentive pay, which is tied directly to operating performance and the residual was due to lower employer taxes, which are always seasonally higher in the first quarter. Pure salary expense was up almost $1 million versus the first quarter as we continue to execute against our hiring plan. Higher depreciation and amortization reflects the amortization of acquired intangibles on the MuniBrokers transaction. Marketing and advertising cost can swing period to period and the second quarter reflects a more active level of advertising campaigns and return of some T&E [Phonetic] expense. We are at the mid-year mark and are now expecting that full-year expenses may end up at the low end of our expense guidance range of $370 million to $386 million.On slide 12, we provide cash flow and capital management information. Cash and investments as of June 30 were $440 million and trailing 12 months free cash flow was $320 million. During the second quarter, we paid out the quarterly cash dividend of $25 million and repurchased a total of 49,000 shares at a cost of $20 million through a combination of net down on option exercise and restricted stock vesting activity and our share buyback program. We didn't borrow against the $500 million syndicated revolving credit facility or the $200 million secured facility used to facilitate Open Trading settlement activity in the second quarter. Based on the second-quarter results, our Board has approved a $0.66 regular quarterly dividend.Now, let me turn the call back to Rick.Richard M. McVey -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Tony. We continue to be optimistic about the long-term growth opportunity in front of us. In the short run, growth rates will always be impacted by market conditions. Long term, we continue to deliver attractive revenue and earnings growth and see a large and growing opportunity set for our business. Our investments are paying off with the growing international business, accelerating share momentum in emerging markets, and promising new products and protocols.Let me close the prepared remarks with a sincere thank you to Tony DeLise. Tony has done an outstanding job as MarketAxess CFO over the last 11 years. He has been a terrific business partner and an essential part of our senior team, always operating with integrity and transparency. Tony has passed the CFO baton onto Chris Gerosa, our former Head of Finance. Tony will remain with the Company and focus on Corporate Development, Capital Management, and Investor Relations. Well done, Tony, on a great run as MarketAxess CFO.Now, I would be happy to open the line for your questions.