  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is David, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to NVIDIA's fourth-quarter earnings call. Today's conference is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there'll be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Simona Jankowski, you may begin your conference.Simona Jankowski -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to NVIDIA's conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. With me today from NVIDIA are Jensen Huang, president and chief executive officer; and Colette Kress, executive vice president and chief financial officer. I'd like to remind you that our call is being webcast live on NVIDIA's Investor Relations website. The webcast will be available for replay until the conference call to discuss our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2023. The content of today's call is NVIDIA's property. It can't be reproduced or transcribed without our prior written consent. During this call, we may make forward-looking statements based on current expectations.These are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially. For a discussion of factors that could affect our future financial results and business, please refer to the disclosure in today's earnings release, our most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q, and the reports that we may file on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All our statements are made as of today, February 16, 2022, based on information currently available to us. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such statements. During this call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures. You can find a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our CFO commentary, which is posted on our website. With that, let me turn the call over to Colette. 

 



Colette Kress -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Simona. We had an excellent quarter with revenue up 53% year on year to $7.6 billion. We set records for total revenue, as well as for Gaming, Data Center, and Professional Visualization. Full-year revenue was a record $26.9 billion, up 61%, compounding the prior year's growth of 53%. Starting with Gaming, revenue of $3.4 billion rose 6% sequentially and was up 37% from a year earlier. Fiscal year revenue of $12.5 billion was up 61%. Gaming has become the top entertainment medium that continues to show strong momentum. Just last month, Steam hit a record 28 million concurrent users, up 50% in two years. Record desktop revenue in the quarter was led by our growth in our GeForce RTX 30 Series products with continued strength in the high end. At CES, we announced the RTX 3050 GPO, which hit retail in late January, bringing NVIDIA RTX and AI technologies to more mainstream audiences. Laptop gaming revenue also set a record, driven by the ramp of the new GeForce RTX 3070 Ti and 3080 GPUs, which were also announced at CES. These leverage our fourth-generation Max-Q technology to enable quiet and light gaming laptops.

 



 All in, we announced over 160 new laptop designs for NVIDIA and tier architecture RTX 30 Series GPUs. These include a number of studio systems targeting the tens of millions of creators driving the future of design, innovation, and virtual world. In addition to supporting the new RTX 30 Series GPUs, Studio laptops future support for NVIDIA software with Omniverse, Tundus, and Broadcast. Availability of our gaming products in the channel remains low. NVIDIA RTX ecosystem continues to expand with over 30 new RTX games and applications added this quarter, including blockbuster hit like Battlefield 2042, Grand Theft Auto, Call of Duty: Vanguard, and God of War. In addition, several new titles support NVIDIA Reflex for low-latency impact. Our GPUs are capable of cryptocurrency mining, so we have limited visibility into how much of this impacts our overall GPU demand. Nearly all desktop NVIDIA Ampere architecture GeForce GPU shipments are light cache rate to help direct GeForce supply to gamers. Cryptomining processor revenue was $24 million, which is included in OEM and other. We continue to expand the NVIDIA GeForce NOW cloud gaming ecosystem with new hit titles, including EA's Battlefield 4 and Battlefield V. At CES, we announced a partnership with Samsung to integrate GeForce NOW in its smart TVs starting in Q2 of this year. This follows last month's beta release of the GeForce NOW for LG smart TVs. In addition, we teamed up with AT&T to bring GeForce NOW to 5G mobile devices in the U.S. We also added our first GFN data center in Canada. Moving to pro visualization. Q4 revenue was $643 million was up 11% sequentially and up 109% from a year ago. Fiscal year revenue of $2.1 billion was up 100%. Sequential growth in the quarter was driven by a shift to higher-value workstation and the continued ramp of our NVIDIA healthcare architecture. We believe strong demand is fueled by continued build-outs for hybrid work environment, as well as growth in key workloads, including design, AI, and rendering. For example, Sony Pictures ImageWorks is using NVIDIA RTX to accelerate ray-tracing for rendering-related applications. Motion is using NVIDIA RTX for AI to assist in predictive maintenance of the vehicles. And Duke Energy is using NVIDIA RTX for AI and VR to map, view, and maintain energy facilities. NVIDIA Omniverse enterprise software entered general availability. And while it's still in early days, customer feedback so far has been very positive, with multiple significant enterprise licensees already signed. In addition to software licenses, Omniverse also drives computing opportunity for NVIDIA RTX in laptops, workstations, and on-prem servers, and the cloud. Omniverse can be used by individuals for free and by enterprise teams via software subscriptions. At CES, we made the free version of Omniverse for individual's general availability. Omniverse allows creators with RTX GPUs to connect leading 3D design applications to a single scheme and superset their work with AI and physics. We also announced early access to Omniverse Cloud, which adds one-click capability to collaborate with other artists, whether across the room or across the globe. For digital twin applications, we announced the Isaac Autonomous Mobile Robot platform using Omniverse and securely orchestrated and cloud delivered with the platform optimizes operational efficiency and accelerate deployment from logistics remods. It consists of several NVIDIA AI technologies and SDKs, including data for high-precision mapping, metropolis, or situational awareness and reop for real-time route optimization. Moving to automotive. Q4 revenue was $125 million, declined 7% sequentially and 14% from the year-ago quarter. Fiscal year revenue of $566 million was up 6%. We have just started shipments of our Orion-based product platform and expect to return to sequential revenue growth in Q1 with more meaningful inflection in the second half of the fiscal year and momentum building into calendar 2023. I will now hand it over to Jensen to provide more color on this morning's automotive news.Jensen Huang -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Colette. Earlier today, we announced a partnership with Jaguar Land Rover to jointly develop and deliver fleets of software-defined cars. Starting in 2025, all new Jaguar and Land Rover vehicles will have next-generation automated driving systems, plus AI-enabled software and services built on the NVIDIA DRIVE platform. DRIVE Orin will be the AI computer brain running our DRIVE AV and DRIVE IX software. And the DRIVE Hyperion sensor network will be the central nervous system. This new vehicle architecture will enable a wide spectrum of active safety, automated driving, and parking systems. Inside the vehicle, the system will deliver AI features, including driver and occupant monitoring and advanced visualization of the vehicles surroundings. We are very much looking forward to partnering with Thierry Bollore, JLR's CEO, and his team to reinvent the future of luxury cars. Our full-stack end-to-end approach is a new business model that offers downloadable AV and AI services to the fleet of JLR vehicles with a shared software revenue stream for both companies over the life of the fleet. This partnership follows the template of our announcement with Mercedes-Benz. Our shared software revenue opportunity with both OEMs will scale with the size of their NVIDIA-powered fleet, which, combined, can exceed 10 million cars over a decade. Colette, back to you.Colette Kress -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jensen. Moving to Data Center. Record revenue of $3.3 billion grew 11% sequentially and 71% from a year earlier. Fiscal year revenue of $10.6 billion was up 58%. Data center growth in the quarter was once again led by our compute products on strong demand for NVIDIA AI. Hyperscale and cloud demand was outstanding, with revenue more than doubling year on year. Vertical Industries also posted strong double-digit year-on-year growth led by consumer Internet companies. The flagship NVIDIA A100 GPU continue to drive strong growth. Inference-focused revenue more than tripled year on year. Accelerating inference growth has been enabled by widespread adoption of our Triton and France server software, which helps customers deliver fast and scalable AI in production. Data center compute demand was driven by continued deployment of our Ampere architecture-based product for fast-growing AI workloads such as natural language processing and deep learning recommendation systems, as well as cloud executing. For example, Block Inc., a global leader in payment, uses conversational AI in its Square Assistant to schedule appointments with customers. These AI models are trained on video GPUs in AWS and perform inference 10x faster on the AWS GP service and on our CPUs. Social media company Snap used NVIDIA GPUs and Merlin deep recommendator software to improve inference cost efficiency by 50% and decrease latency to 2x. For the third year in a row, industry benchmarks show that NVIDIA AI continues to lead the industry in performance. Along with partners like Microsoft Azure, NVIDIA such records in the latest benchmarks for AI training across eight popular AI workloads, including computer vision, natural language processing, recommendation systems, reinforcement learning, and detection. NVIDIA AI was the only platform to make submissions across all benchmarks and use cases, demonstrating versatility, as well as our performance. The numbers show performance gains on our A100 GPUs of over 5x in just two months, thanks to continuous innovations across the full stack in AI algorithms, optimization tools, and system software. Over the past three years, they saw performance gains of over 20x powered by advances we have made across our full-stack offering GPUs, networks, systems, and software. The leading performance of NVIDIA AI is sought after by some of the world's most technically advanced companies. Meta Platforms unveils its new AI supercomputer research, SuperCluster, with over 6,000 A100 GPUs moved to an NVIDIA -- Meta's early benchmarks showed its system can train large natural language processing models 3x faster and run computer vision jobs 20x faster than the prior system. In a second phase later this year, the system will expand to 16,000 GPUs that Meta believes will deliver 5x of mixed precision AI performance. In addition to performance at scale, Meta cited extreme reliability, security, privacy, and flexibility to handle a wide range of AI models as its key criteria for the system. We continue to broaden the reach and ease the adoption of NVIDIA AI into vertical industries. Our ecosystem of NVIDIA-certified systems expanded with Cisco and Hitachi -- which joined Dell, HewlettPackard Enterprise, Insper, Lenovo, and Supermicro, among other sever manufacturers. We released version 1.1 of our NVIDIA AI Enterprise software, allowing enterprises to accelerated annual workloads on VMware, on mainstream IT infrastructure as well. And we expanded the number of system integrators qualified for NVIDIA AI Enterprise. Forrester Research in its evaluation of Enterprise AI infrastructure providers recognized NVIDIA in the top category of leaders. An example of a partner that's helping to expand our reach into enterprise IT is Deloitte, a leading global consulting firm, which has built its center for AI computing on NVIDIA DGX Superpod. At CES, we extended our collaboration to AV development, leveraging our own robust AI infrastructure and Deloitte's team of 5,500 system integration developers and 2,000 data scientists to architect solutions for truly intelligent transportation. Our networking products posted strong sequential and year-over-year growth, driven by exceptional demand across use cases ranging from computing, supercomputing, and enterprise to storage adopters-led growth driven by adoption of our next-generation products and higher-speed deployments. While revenue was gated by supply, we anticipate improving capacity in coming quarters, which should allow us to serve with significant customer demands we're seeing. Across the board, we are excited about the traction we are seeing with our new software business models, including NVIDIA AI, NVIDIA Omniverse, and NVIDIA DRIVE. We are still early in the software revenue ramp. Our pipelines are building as customers across the industry seek to accelerate their pace of adoption and innovation with NVIDIA. Now, let me turn it back over to Jensen for some comments on Arm.Jensen Huang -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Colette. Last week, we terminated our efforts to purchase Arm. When we entered into the transaction in September 2020, we believed that would accelerate Arm's focus on high-performance CPUs and help Arm expand into new markets, benefiting all our customers in the entire ecosystem. Like any combination of pioneers of important technologies, our proposed acquisition spurred questions from regulators worldwide. We appreciated the regulatory concerns. For over a year, we worked closely with SoftBank and Arm to explain our vision for Arm and reassure regulators that NVIDIA would be a worthy steward of the Arm ecosystem. We gave it our best shot, but the headwinds were too strong, and we could not give regulators the comfort they needed to approve our deal. NVIDIA's work in accelerated computing and our overall strategy will continue as before. Our focus is accelerated computing. We are on track to launch our Arm-based CPU, targeting giant AI and HPC workloads in the first half of next year. Our 20-year architectural license to Arm's IP allows us the full breadth and flexibility of options across technologies and markets. We will deliver on our three-chip strategy across CPUs, GPUs, and DPUs. Whether x86 or Arm, we will use the best CPU for the job. And together with partners in the computer industry, offer the world's best computing platform to tackle the impactful challenges of our time. Back to you, Colette.Colette Kress -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jensen. We're going to turn to our P&L and our outlook. For the discussion of the rest of the P&L, please refer to the CFO commentary published earlier today on our Investor Relations lean. Let me turn to the outlook for the first quarter of fiscal 2023. We expect sequential growth to be driven primarily by Data Center. Gaming will also contribute to growth. Revenue is expected to be $8.1 billion, plus or minus 2%. GAAP and non-GAAP gross margins are expected to be 65.2% and 67%, respectively, plus or minus 50 basis points. GAAP operating expenses are expected to be $3.55 billion, including the Arm write-off of $1.36 billion. Non-GAAP operating expenses are expected to be $1.6 billion. For the fiscal year, we expect to grow non-GAAP operating expenses at a similar percent as in fiscal 2022. GAAP and non-GAAP other operating, other income, and expenses are both expected to be an expense of approximately $55 million, excluding gains and losses on nonaffiliated investments. Non-GAAP tax rate are expected to be 11% and 13%, plus or minus 1%, excluding discrete items. Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $350 million to $400 million. Further financial details are included in the CFO commentary and other information available on our IR website. In closing, let me highlight upcoming events for the financial community. We will be attending the Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference in person on March 7. We will also be hosting a virtual Investor Day on March 22, alongside the GPU Technology Conference. This will follow Jensen's opening keynote, which we invite you to tune into. Our earnings call to discuss the results for our first quarter of fiscal 2023 is scheduled for Wednesday, May 27. We will now open the call for questions. Operator, will you please poll for questions? 