
OperatorGood day everyone, and welcome to the Cintas' Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year '21 Earnings Release Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Paul Adler, Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.Paul F. Adler -- Vice President, Treasurer and Investor RelationsThank you, Nick. And thank you for joining us. With me today is Scott Farmer, Cintas' Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors; Todd Schneider, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Hansen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We will discuss our fourth quarter results for fiscal 2021. After our commentary, we will be happy to answer questions.The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a Safe Harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. This conference call contains forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current views as to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those we may discuss. I refer you to the discussion on these points contained in our most recent filings with the SEC.I'll now turn the call over to Mike Hansen.J. Michael Hansen -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Paul. Our fiscal 2021 fourth quarter revenue was one $1.84 billion, compared to $1.62 billion in last year's fourth quarter, an increase of 13.3%. Earnings per diluted share or EPS were $2.47, an increase of 83% from last year's fourth quarter. The organic revenue growth rate adjusted for acquisitions, divestitures, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and differences in the number of workdays was 11.5% for the fourth quarter of fiscal '21. Organic revenue for the Uniform Rental and Facility Services operating segment was 13.7%. Organic revenue for the First Aid and Safety Services operating segment declined 6.8%.Gross margin for the fourth quarter of fiscal '21 was $859.1 million, compared to $770.8 million in last year's fourth quarter. Gross margin as a percent of revenue increased 310 basis points to 46.8% for the fourth quarter of fiscal '21, compared to 43.7% in the fourth quarter of fiscal '20.Selling and administrative expenses improved as a percent of revenue to 27.4% in the fourth quarter of fiscal '21, compared to 30.9% last year. Operating income for the fourth quarter of fiscal '21 of $356.4 million, increased 71.8%. Operating margin increased 660 basis points to 19.4% in the fourth quarter of fiscal '21, compared to 12.8% in the fourth quarter of fiscal '20. Fiscal '20, fourth quarter operating income was affected by many items caused by COVID-19, including additional reserves on accounts receivable and inventory, severance and asset impairment expenses and lower incentive compensation expense. Excluding these items, the fiscal '20 fourth quarter operating margin was 15.5%. All of these items were recorded in last year's selling and administrative expenses.Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal '21 was 19.4% compared to 20.4% last year. The tax rate can move from period to period based on discrete events, including the impact of stock compensation. Net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal '21 was $267.7 million, an increase of 85.2%. EPS was $2.47, an increase of 83% from last year's fourth quarter.Our balance sheet and cash flow remains strong. Our leverage calculation for our credit facility definition was 1.5 times debt-to-EBITDA at May 31, 2021. On June 1, 2021, $250 million of debt bearing an interest rate of 4.3% matured and was repaid with cash on hand. We have an untapped credit facility of $1 billion. During the fourth quarter of fiscal '21 and our first quarter of fiscal '22 to-date, we purchased $979 million of Cintas common stock under our buyback program. On June 15, 2021, Cintas paid shareholders $79.2 million in quarterly dividends.For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2021 revenue was $7.12 billion compared to $7.09 billion for fiscal '20. EPS for fiscal '21 were $10.24 compared to $8.11 for last fiscal year. Revenue and adjusted EPS have grown 50 of the past 52 years. Fiscal '21 free cash flow, which is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures was $1.22 billion, an increase of 14.7% compared to last year.For our fiscal '22, we expect our revenue to be in the range of $7 -- out $7.53 billion to $7.63 billion and diluted EPS to be in the range of $10.35 to $10.75. Please note the following regarding our guidance. Our fiscal '22 effective tax rate is expected to be in the range of 19.5% to 20.5% compared to a rate of 13.7% in fiscal '21. A higher effective tax rate negatively impacts fiscal '22 EPS guidance by about $0.85 and EPS growth by about 800 basis points. Guidance does not include any future share buybacks or potential tax reform.We remain in a dynamic environment that can continue to change. Our guidance contemplates a steadily improving economy, absent any economic or pandemic related setbacks. For financial modeling purposes, please note that there are no workday differences when comparing fiscal '22 to '21, both fiscal years contains 66 days in the first quarter, 65 in the second, 64 in the third and 66 in the fourth quarter.I'll now turn the call to Paul for commentary on the performance of each of our businesses.Paul F. Adler -- Vice President, Treasurer and Investor RelationsThanks, Mike. The Uniform Rental and Facility Services operating segment includes the rental and servicing of the uniforms, healthcare scrubs, mats and towels and the provision of restroom supplies and other facility products and services. The segment also includes the sale of items from our catalogs to our customers on route. Uniform Rental and Facility Services revenue was $1.47 billion compared to $1.27 billion last year. Our Uniform Rental and Facility Services segment gross margin increased 410 basis points to 47.7% for the fourth quarter compared to 43.6% in last year's fourth quarter, driven in large part by lower production and service expense as a percent of revenue. While some inflationary pressures increased certain costs, these were more than offset by increased revenue from businesses reopening or increasing capacity as COVID-19 case counts fell and restrictions on businesses were reduced.Our First Aid and Safety Services operating segment includes revenue from the sale and servicing of first aid products, safety products, personal protective equipment and training. This segment's revenue for the fourth quarter was $186.9 million compared to $196.3 million last year.First Aids fourth quarter revenue was up against a very difficult comparison and last year's fourth quarter in response to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, personal protective equipment sales surged. Also the first aid cabinet service business was not impacted and so late in last year's fourth quarter when business restrictions became widespread. As a result, the division posted a 21.9% organic revenue growth rate in last year's fourth quarter. The First Aid segment gross margin was 43% in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year, compared to 46.1% last year. The difference in gross margins is due to revenue mix. As we guided last quarter, less personal protective equipment was sold in the fourth quarter and in the third quarter. However, as a percentage of total division revenue, personal protective equipment revenue was still a significant percentage, while profitable, personal protective equipment revenue has lower gross margins in the First Aid Cabinet Servicing business. We expect gross margins to improve sequentially as the Cabinet Servicing business continues to grow and get closer to the pre-COVID percent of total division revenue.Our Fire Protection Services and Uniform Direct Sale businesses are reported in the All Other category. All Other revenue was $181.9 million compared to $152.3 million last year. The Fire business, organic revenue increased 22.4%. Gross margin improved 70 basis points. Uniform Direct Sale business, organic revenue growth rate was 6.2% and gross margin increased 280 basis points.I'll now turn the call over to Todd for our final prepared remarks.Todd M. Schneider -- President & Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Paul. We are pleased with our fourth quarter financial results. They conclude a fiscal year of significant accomplishments, including the following. We up keep our customers place of business clean, safe and Ready for the Workday, by providing essential products and services. We procured hard to find and potentially lifesaving items such as face masks and gloves, providing hygienically clean healthcare scrubs and isolation gowns and developed services including hand sanitizer dispensing, sanitizing spray services and disinfecting wipes. Our Net Promoter Scores reached an all time high, because we consistently delivered for our customers, by providing needed products and services and being flexible with service agreement terms during the pandemic. We were again named to the prestigious Fortune 500, climbing 31 spots to rank at number 410 on the 2021 list. It's an honor to be recognized among the most successful and respected companies.We allocated capital to improve shareholder return. We paid down debt, reducing interest expense. We increased the annual dividend 10.2% and changed from an annual dividend to a quarterly dividend to return cash to shareholders more timely. We've increased the dividend 37 consecutive years, also in fiscal 2021 and up until today, we repurchased 2.7 million shares of Cintas stock for a total of $979 million. As part of our steadfast commitment to corporate responsibility, we issued our inaugural Environmental Social and Governance or ESG report. We are committed to protecting the environment, enhancing humanity and supporting the communities where we do business.And in addition to these many accomplishments and despite the unprecedented challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, we grew our fiscal year revenue and adjusted EPS. [Indecipherable] bank our reporting partners and I'm so proud of their truly impressive achievements. The Cintas story is one of growth. We've grown revenue and adjusted EPS in 50 of the past 52 years. The only exceptions were the great recession years. Our successful long-term financial formula is organic revenue growth in the mid to high single-digits, double-digit earnings-per-share growth, significant cash generation and prudent deployment of excess cash to further generate strong shareholder returns.Our prospects for continued growth are great and then result in part from a strong value proposition in a vast total addressable market. We have a product or service to help nearly every business get Ready for the Workday. Examples include, scrub rental to hospitals and dentists, hygiene supplies and services to professional services firms, more care services including walk-off mats and mops to retailers, first aid products to hotel and restaurant kitchens for cuts and burns, Fire Protection services to facilities' managers and universities and personal protective equipment to city maintenance and sanitization departments.The ramping of healthcare scrubs and isolation gowns is indicative of a broad uniform rental opportunity, plus we are so much more than a Uniform company. More than half of our revenue is from Facility Services, including hygiene floor care items such as walk-off mats and dust mops. Cleaning tools like micro fiber mops and towels. First Aid Cabinets Services, Personal Protective Equipment and Fire Protection Services, including test and inspection of extinguishers and alarms.Our total addressable market is the 15 million to 20 million businesses we don't currently service. Every business, goods producing or services providing has a need for image, safety, cleanliness or compliance. Every business has the need Cintas can fulfill. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic ushered in a greater focus on health, readiness and outsourcing of non-core activities. Significant opportunities for new revenues continue to exist, because of the need of businesses to instill confidence in their employees, customers, students patients, etc, that they will remain healthy and safe. The new service since we launched including hand sanitizer stand dispenser service and sanitizing spray-service have a long runway.Cintas consistently invest in technology to support growth. Our recent implementation of the SAP enterprise resource planning system provides benefits in three main areas. One is operational efficiencies. Our route drivers utilized personal route computers, which are similar to a self-front to access data and process transactions real-time. Also SAP enabled us to have visibility to longer plant stock from inventories across our operations, helping improve profitability be of the sharing and reuse of revenue producing assets and the technology helps us improve working capital, be a tighter management of supply chain inventory. The second benefit is data analytics and enhance business reporting. These result from having the order to cash cycle all in one system. SAP enables us to analyze, process and extract information from extremely large dataset, helping us target penetration, cross-selling and pricing opportunities. And the third competitive advantage is improve customer service. Through SAP our customers can pay bills and communicate with us 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We expect the ease of doing business with -- will help us improve customer retention. Also, customers can order products and services via SAP resulting in improved turnaround time and faster realization of product and service revenue.I want say a few more words regarding ESG. From the start of our -- from the start of our company in the great depression, the Cintas business model was wholly based on sustainable practices. Wash and Reuse. We have a great Corporate Responsibility story to tell. We will continue to expand our ESG reporting and are excited about issuing our next report this year.Finally, I'd like to say thank you on behalf of all Cintas employee partners to Scott Farmer for his 18 years of service as Chief Executive Officer. Under Scott's leadership, the company's revenue grew from $2.69 billion in 2003 to $7.12 billion in fiscal 2021. Scott successfully led Cintas through years filled with challenges, changes and opportunities, including the Great Recession, our largest acquisition, the COVID-19 pandemic and the integration of SAP technology across the organization. We thank Scott for his service to the company as CEO and we are grateful that he remains as Executive Chairman.Scott D. Farmer -- Executive ChairmanThank you, Todd. I'd like to take this moment to thank all of my Cintas partners across the company. I'm proud of our many collective accomplishments, including the innovative products and services that we provide our customers as well as the tremendous dedication of our employee partners without whom we wouldn't be successful. Our company is in a position of financial strength with the strongest and most experienced management team that we've ever had, executing a proven strategy that as allowed our continued success even through the recent pandemic. It's been a true honor and privilege for me to lead this company as CEO for the last 18 years and I'm as excited about our future as I'd ever been and I look forward to watching this leadership teams curious and continued success in the future.J. Michael Hansen -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThat concludes our prepared remarks. We are happy to answer your questions.