  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Seagen first quarter 2022 financial results conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Clay Siegall. Please go ahead, sir.Peggy Pinkston -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm pleased to welcome you to Seagen's first quarter 2022 financial results conference call. This afternoon, we issued a press release with our results, and that press release and supporting slides are available on our website in the Investors section, Events and Presentations page. Speakers on today's call will be Clay Siegall, president and chief executive officer; Todd Simpson, chief financial officer; Chip Romp, executive vice president, commercial U.S.; and Roger Dansey, chief medical officer. Following our prepared remarks, we'll open the line for questions, and we aim to keep this call to one hour. [Operator instructions] Today's conference call will include forward-looking statements regarding future or anticipated events and results, including the company's 2022 financial outlook, anticipated product sales, revenues, costs and expenses, future developments related to legal matters, and potential clinical and regulatory milestones, including data readouts, regulatory submissions, and potential marketing and reimbursement approvals. Actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected or implied in these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such a difference include the difficulty in forecasting sales, revenues, and expenses, impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the uncertainty associated with legal disputes and with the pharmaceutical development and regulatory approval process.More information about the risks and uncertainties faced by Seagen is contained under the caption Risk Factors included in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the company's subsequent reports filed with the SEC. And now, I'll turn the call over to Clay. Clay Siegall -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Peg. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our first quarter call. We are pleased to report total revenues of $426 million for the first quarter. This includes net product sales of $383 million, representing 27% growth over the first quarter of last year. This growth reflects strong product sales across all commercial brands. As we look to deliver continued innovation and develop transformative therapies, we remain focused on two strategic priorities. Our first priority is working to maximize the global potential of our products through commercial performance and robust clinical development programs designed to support future label expansions while also leveraging our strategic partnerships. I'll begin with Padcev, which has become a standard of care in the U.S. for previously treated metastatic urothelial cancer. Earlier this month, we and our partner, Astellas, secured approval in both the EU and U.K. for Padcev in previously treated locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer. The approvals are based on the EV-301 trial, notably the impressive overall survival benefit. This marks an important milestone for patients in these regions who have previously had limited treatment options, offering poor survival rates. We previously secured approvals in the U.S., Canada, Switzerland, Israel, and Japan and continue to progress regulatory submissions across Asia Pacific and the Americas. We and Astellas are engaging with individual country authorities to secure reimbursement for Padcev, which can take up to two years, depending on the country. Padcev's robust clinical development program spans monotherapy in combinations with Keytruda in earlier lines of therapy. EV-103 Cohort K data, which are anticipated in the second half of this year, along with other data from the EV-103 trial could potentially support accelerated approval in the U.S. for patients with first-line metastatic urothelial cancer next year. We are also evaluating Padcev in combination with Keytruda in muscle-invasive bladder cancer and as monotherapy in nonmuscle-invasive disease. These represent areas of significant unmet need in large addressable patient populations. Tukysa has become an important option for the treatment of second- and later-line HER2-positive breast cancer patients with and without brain metastasis. Overall survival data and inclusion in key treatment guidelines reflect Tukysa's exceptional clinical value. Tukysa delivered strong results this quarter, although we continue to expect competitive challenges in the U.S. this year, which are factored into our annual guidance. We are working to enable additional European launches in 2022, and our strategic collaboration with Merck is expanding Tukysa's reach outside of Europe and the Americas. Tukysa's broad development program includes clinical trials in HER2-positive breast cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, and other HER2-amplified or mutant tumors. Data from the Phase 2 MOUNTAINEER trial are expected in the second half of this year and could potentially support accelerated approval in the U.S. next year for patients with HER2-expressing colorectal cancer. Although a relatively modest patient population, it represents a high unmet medical need as existing approved colorectal cancer therapies offer limited efficacy. Tivdak is a tissue factor-targeted ADC approved in the U.S. for recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer patients and represents an important new therapy in a disease with historically poor outcomes. Launched last September in collaboration with Genmab, the strong uptake has been driven by differentiated clinical data, positive reception from the oncologist community and our focus on commercial execution. We have presented promising combination data in earlier lines of cervical cancer, which may represent clinical advancements and much larger market opportunities. Roger will provide further details on Tivdak's clinical development program, which is designed to maximize its future opportunity in cervical cancer and other solid tumors while supporting global regulatory applications. Adcetris has now been approved in over 75 countries. And Adcetris regimens are U.S. standard of care in frontline Hodgkin lymphoma and peripheral T-cell lymphoma. More than a decade after its first launch, we and our partner, Takeda, continue to bring this important medicine to patients around the globe. Groundbreaking overall survival data from the Phase 3 ECHELON-1 trial in newly diagnosed advanced Hodgkin lymphoma further demonstrate the therapeutic value of Adcetris and its importance for these patients. In addition, a Phase 3 Children's Oncology Group study demonstrated an improvement in event-free survival for high-risk pediatric patients with Hodgkin lymphoma. Both the ECHELON-1 data and the Phase 3 pediatric data will be presented at ASCO in June and will be submitted to FDA this year. Lastly, we are progressing a comprehensive clinical development program to maximize the potential for Adcetris to benefit patients. Our second strategic priority is to advance our deep and diverse pipeline as we look to bring additional drugs to market in the coming years. Disitamab vedotin, or DV, is a late-stage novel ADC that utilizes our vedotin-based technology. DV is active across a broad range of HER2-expressing solid tumors and demonstrates rapid internalization. Our clinical development program prioritizes monotherapy and combination approaches in breast, bladder, gastric and other cancers. We recently initiated a pivotal trial in previously treated metastatic urothelial cancer intended to support accelerated approval in the U.S. Turning to our earlier-stage pipeline. We are advancing several ADCs to both novel and validated targets. We also have four programs that use our proprietary sugar-engineered antibody technology. Overall, we are progressing more than 17 programs and products across our pipeline in a range of solid tumors and hematologic malignancies. Our ADC collaborators are also making important progress with programs that utilize our technology. Roche recently reported that the CHMP recommended European Commission approval for Polivy in combination with other anticancer therapies for frontline diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. GlaxoSmithKline is commercializing Blenrep for patients with relapsed multiple myeloma and is advancing several clinical trials. And AbbVie was granted breakthrough therapy designation for their cMET ADC, telisotuzumab vedotin based on data from the Phase 2 study for non-small cell lung cancer. As we look to the future, our plan is to continue building upon our four commercial products, advancing our deep and diverse pipeline, and expanding our geographic footprint. We have over 50 strategic partnerships, including our recent collaboration with Sanofi. Based on our cash position of approximately $2 billion and no debt, we are strongly positioned to utilize cutting-edge innovation to make a positive impact on the lives of people with cancer today and tomorrow. Next, I'll turn the call over to Todd, who will discuss our financial results. Then Chip will provide an update on our commercial performance. After that, Roger will detail our clinical development activities and pipeline. Todd?Todd Simpson -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Clay, and thanks to everyone for joining us on the call this afternoon. I'll briefly summarize our financial results for the quarter, which are aligned with our expectations and reflects significant progress across the business. Total revenues were $426 million in the first quarter of 2022, representing 28% growth over the first quarter of last year. This included net product sales of $383 million, an increase of 27% over the first quarter of 2021. This was driven by strong growth of Padcev, Tukysa, and Adcetris. First quarter 2022 sales of Padcev also included $9 million in sales to another company for a combination clinical trial that they are conducting and which was factored into our 2022 guidance. Additionally, first quarter 2022 product sales included contributions from Tivdak, which was launched in the third quarter of 2021 as our fourth approved drug. Royalty revenues in the first quarter of 2022 increased slightly to $28 million compared to the first quarter of 2021. These royalties are primarily driven by sales of Adcetris outside the U.S. and Canada by Takeda, and to a lesser degree, by royalties from sales of Polivy by Roche and Blenrep by GSK. As expected, royalties decreased from the fourth quarter of last year as the royalty rate paid by Takeda on its sales of Adcetris resets at the beginning of each year and ranges from the mid-teens to the mid-20s. Collaboration revenues were $15 million in the first quarter of 2022. This included an upfront payment from Sanofi under our new collaboration signed in March, a profit share contribution from Astellas' sales of Padcev in Japan, as well as other collaboration activities. These each create some degree of quarterly variability in our collaboration revenues. Following the recent approval of Padcev in the EU, we expect to begin reporting profit share amounts next year from the sales of Padcev by Astellas. Cost of sales in the first quarter of 2022 increased to $88 million. This included cost of product sales and royalties for each of our four brands, profit share amounts to our collaboration partners, Astellas and Genmab, as well as noncash amortization of acquired technology costs for Tukysa. R&D expenses increased to $298 million in the first quarter of 2022. This reflected continued investment across our deep and diverse pipeline to maximize the potential of our approved products and pipeline programs. SG&A expenses increased to $174 million in the first quarter of 2022. This is driven by our commercialization efforts for Adcetris, Padcev, and Tukysa, the launch of Tivdak in the U.S., as well as investments to support ongoing country launches of Tukysa across Europe. We are off to a strong start and pleased with our financial results. With that in mind, we are maintaining our 2022 financial guidance that we provided in February. Now I will pass the call over to Chip, who will provide additional details on our commercial performance and outlook.Chip Romp -- Executive Vice President, Commercial U.S. Thank you, Todd. I'm pleased to provide an update on our commercial performance, which set a new quarterly record of $383 million and covers four approved brands. Padcev first quarter sales were $100 million, a 44% increase over the first quarter of 2021. Excluding the $9 million clinical trial supplier order, growth was up 33% over the first quarter of last year. During its first 1.5 years on the market, Padcev became the U.S. standard of care in the post checkpoint setting. We look forward to a potential label expansion in the U.S. into the frontline setting in cisplatin-ineligible patients in 2023. We are also excited by Padcev's recent approval in the EU and U.K. and look forward to working with our collaborator, Astellas, to bring this important therapy to patients. Moving on to Tukysa. First quarter sales were $90 million, a 29% increase over the first quarter of 2021. You will recall that our 2022 outlook for Tukysa assumes the impact of competitive pressure from a HER2's anticipated U.S. launch in the second-line setting and inclusion in guidelines and pathways. This remains our expectation despite seeing only modest impact in the first quarter. With the HER2's approval in this setting, we continue to anticipate a shift in how these regimens are sequenced, with increased use of Enhertu and less Tukysa use, delaying patient flow into the third line plus setting, where Tukysa is mostly used. Our promotional effort is focused on Tukysa's strong value proposition, especially in those patients with CNS involvement. Sales in Europe continued to grow in the first quarter, and we look forward to gaining reimbursement in additional countries this year. Adcetris first quarter sales were $181 million, an 11% increase over the first quarter of 2021. The team is driving awareness of the positive overall survival data from the ECHELON-1 trial. The top-line data announced in February has been well received, and we look forward to moving a full data set after the oral presentation at ASCO. And finally, Tivdak sales were $11 million for the quarter. While this initial indication is a modest opportunity, we are pleased with the positive reception from physicians and patients for this important new treatment option. Now I'll hand the call over to Roger.Roger Dansey -- Chief Medical Officer Thank you, Chip, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm happy to share recent clinical development update on our approved medicines and our pipeline. Beginning with Padcev, we are very pleased with its recent approval in the EU and the U.K. based on the overall survival advantage in previously treated patients with metastatic urothelial cancer as demonstrated in the EV-301 trial. This study was positive at a prespecified interim analysis, and we plan to present important long-term outcomes at ASCO based on an additional 13 months of follow-up. In the frontline metastatic setting, we are evaluating the combination of Padcev and Keytruda in two studies. The first study is EV-103 Cohort K, which enrolled patients who are ineligible for cisplatin therapy. The second is the Phase 3 EV-302 global trial, which includes both cisplatin-eligible and ineligible patients and is on track to complete enrollment this year. As we look to muscle-invasive bladder cancer, together with Astellas and Merck, we are advancing two Phase 3 trials to assess Padcev in combination with Keytruda as perioperative treatment. One trial is testing usage in cisplatin-eligible patients and the other in cisplatin-ineligible patients. At the recent ASCO GU meeting, we presented promising Padcev monotherapy data in the neoadjuvant MIBC setting for people who are suspected ineligible. These data are important in understanding the impact of Padcev as a monotherapy in the context of the ongoing combination trials. Furthermore, we are progressing our efforts in nonmuscle-invasive bladder cancer. The Phase 1 EV-104 trial is investigating single-agent Padcev administered intravesically in BCG nonresponsive patients. At the AACR meeting earlier this month, we presented preclinical data of intravesical Padcev in models of NMIBC, showing minimal local and no systemic toxicities, along with evidence of antitumor activity. Beyond bladder cancer, we continue to assess Padcev in a monotherapy basket trial of other Nectin-4-expressing solid tumors. Turning to Tukysa. We are pleased to announce that we recently enrolled the first patient in HER2CLIMB-05. This study is evaluating Tukysa in the frontline maintenance setting of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. Patients are randomized to receive Tukysa, trastuzumab, and pertuzumab or trastuzumab and pertuzumab alone after completion of the taxane component of the combination therapy. Despite the excellent results obtained with the standard-of-care treatment, THP, patients remain at risk of relapse and death, including the risk of relapse in the brain. In GI cancers, we expect to report top-line results from the MOUNTAINEER Phase 2 trial in the second half of this year, with the potential for accelerated approval in the United States next year. This study assesses Tukysa and trastuzumab as treatment for patients with previously treated metastatic HER2-positive colorectal cancer. In first-line CRC, we recently initiated a randomized global Phase 3 trial, MOUNTAINEER-03 comparing Tukysa, trastuzumab, and standard chemotherapy to chemotherapy alone. This trial is intended to serve as a confirmatory trial for HER2-positive CRC if Tukysa received accelerated approval in the United States and will also support future global submissions. Additionally, we are studying Tukysa in combination with trastuzumab in a basket trial for solid tumors with HER2 alterations. Moving on to Tivdak. Tivdak has received accelerated approval in the United States for the treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer with disease progression on or after chemotherapy. The Phase 3 monotherapy trial in cervical cancer, innovaTV 301 is enrolling well and is intended to serve as the confirmatory trial in the United States and to facilitate global regulatory applications. As we look to move Tivdak into earlier lines of metastatic or recurrent cervical cancer, we will present frontline combination data with Keytruda from the innovaTV 205 trial in an oral presentation at ASCO this June. The study has also been expanded to further investigate frontline multi-drug combinations, including Tivdak with carboplatin and Keytruda with or without bevacizumab. Beyond cervical cancer, we continue to study Tivdak in other malignancies, both as a monotherapy and in combination with Keytruda and/or platinum-containing chemotherapy. The ongoing Phase 2 study, innovaTV 207, is evaluating Tivdak in multiple solid tumors, including patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. We recently presented encouraging monotherapy data in these patients, and we have now expanded the trial to explore the combination of Tivdak chemotherapy and Keytruda in the frontline head and neck cancer setting. I'll turn now to Adcetris. We are extremely pleased that two important Phase 3 trials of Adcetris in newly diagnosed Hodgkin lymphoma patients were selected for our presentations at ASCO. The first is data from ECHELON-1, which showed that Adcetris in combination with AVD significantly improved overall survival compared with ABVD in patients with advanced Hodgkin lymphoma. Adcetris was shown to reduce the risk of death by 41%, with a hazard ratio of 0.59 and a p-value of 0.009. The second presentation will be of data from the Phase 3 Children's Oncology Group study, AHOD1331, in pediatric patients with high-risk Hodgkin lymphoma. The study met its primary endpoint of superior three-year event-free survival with Adcetris plus chemotherapy compared to a chemotherapy regimen that includes bleomycin. We are planning to submit supplemental BLAs for these two trials to the FDA this year. Turning now to disitamab vedotin or DV. We recently began enrolling patients into the registrational Phase 2 monotherapy trial in second-line HER2-expressing metastatic urothelial cancer. If we obtain positive results from this study, it could potentially support accelerated approval in the United States. We also plan to initiate additional registration studies in bladder cancer and HER2-low breast cancer over the next several months. We are also considering development in other HER2-expressing solid tumors such as gastric cancer. Now I'd like to briefly mention our early stage pipeline. We are currently evaluating a growing number of drug candidates in Phase 1 clinical trials across a range of solid tumors and hematologic malignancies. Earlier this month at AACR, we presented promising preclinical data on two of our newest clinical-stage ADC programs, SGN-B7H4V and SGN-ALPV. SGN-B7H4V is a vedotin ADC targeting the immune checkpoint B7-H4, which is expressed across other tumors, including breast, ovarian and endometrial cancer with limited normal tumor expression. We detailed the robust antitumor activity of the ADC and its immunomodulatory activity through induction of immunogenic cell death. We also disclosed preclinical antitumor activity of SGN-ALPV, a novel vedotin ADC targeting the central alkaline phosphatases, which are expressed across solid tumors, including ovarian, endometrial, gastric, and non-small cell lung cancer. We recently enrolled the first patients in Phase 1 trials of these two ADCs. I will now hand the call over to Clay.Clay Siegall -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Roger. Before we turn to Q&A, I would like to comment on our ongoing legal proceedings with Daiichi Sankyo. A jury recently found that Daiichi Sankyo willfully infringed one of our U.S. patents with Enhertu. We were awarded damages of $41.8 million, representing an 8% royalty on past sales of Enhertu in the United States. With this verdict, we now intend to request that the court award a royalty on future U.S. sales of Enhertu through expiry of the patent in November 2024, as well as enhanced damages, attorney fees, and costs. We anticipate a decision from the court on the future royalty later this year. In a related matter, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office granted a request on rehearing and instituted two post-grant review proceedings brought against certain claims of the same patent, which we intend to vigorously defend. Separately, we are engaged in an arbitration against Daiichi Sankyo over ownership of certain ADC technology used in Enhertu and several other product candidates. We expect a decision on the arbitration in mid-2022. It's important for us to defend our intellectual property as we continue to drive groundbreaking ADC innovation and develop transformative therapies for patients in need. In closing, we expect to achieve many important milestones in 2022, including important clinical data readouts, global and commercial progress, and advances across our pipeline. With that, we'll open for your questions. Operator, please open the line for Q&A. 