
OperatorGood day and welcome to the CME Group Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to John Peschier. Please go ahead, sir.John Peschier -- Managing Director, Investor RelationsThank you and good morning everyone. I hope you're all doing well. I'm going to start with the safe harbor language and then I'll turn it over to Terry and our team for brief remarks, followed by your questions. Statements made on this call and in the other reference documents on our website that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any statement. Detailed information about factors that may affect our performance can be found in the filings with the SEC, which are on our website. Lastly, on the final page of the earnings release, you will see a reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures. With that I'd like to turn the call over to Terry.

 



Terrence A. Duffy -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, John, and thank you all for joining us this morning. We released our executive summary as John says, which provided extensive details on the third quarter of 2021. I have John, Sean, Derek, Sunil, Julie Winkler on the call this morning and we all look forward to addressing any questions you have. Before I begin, in addition to John who will discuss the financial results, I'm going to have Sean and Derek make some comments. With all the recent news associated with interest rates and energy, I thought it was important that they present this morning.With that, we delivered solid volume during the third quarter of this year, as we averaged 17.8 million contracts per day, which was up 14% versus third quarter last year. We saw year-over-year strength in our interest rates and energy businesses and saw significant options growth of 45% during Q3. Rates average daily volume rose 53% including 78% growth in Eurodollars and 41% growth in treasuries. As the expectations of future rate hikes has increased, we continue to launch innovative new products, tools and services to support customer needs, including additions to our suite of micro-sized contracts that allow market users to customize their trading and hedging as well as ESG-focused futures contracts that help manage climate-related risk.In terms of specific products and services, we had two consecutive quarterly ADV records in SOFR futures in Q2 and Q3 as the market continues to manage their interest rate risk ahead of key transition deadlines. Bitcoin futures ADV increased 170% compared with the third quarter last year. Ether futures are also off to a good start since their launch in the first quarter of this year. In September, we launched the derivatives industries first ever sustainable clearing service to help market participants track and report and how their hedging activities are advancing their sustainable goals.

 



Finally, Micro WTI and Micro Treasury yield contracts again, trading in July and August, respectively. The Micro WTI contract represents the most successful commodity product launch in our history with over 1 million contracts traded within the first 20 days and a total of 4.3 million contracts traded since July 12th launch. Most importantly, this innovative new contract is attracting new customers to our energy market as evidenced by the fact that almost 10,000 Micro WTI market participants have not traded any other CME Group crude oil product in 2021. You'll hear more about this in a moment from both Derek and Sean respectively.In the third quarter, non-U.S. ADV was up 13% to 5 million contracts per day. We saw 15% growth in Europe, 8% growth in Asia, 32% growth in Latin America, and 10% growth in the U.S. Also, during the quarter, we completed our joint venture with IHS Market and together, launched OSTTRA, a leading provider of progressive post-trade solutions for the global OTC market across interest rates, equities FX and credit asset classes.Turning to Q4, we have had a strong so -- start so far in October, averaging more than 20 million contracts which is an increase of 35% month-to-date, compared to the same point in October last year. Interest rates in energy are up double-digits, with rates up 90%. With that let me turn it over to Sean to give you more flavor as it relates to interest rates.Sean Tully -- Senior Managing Director, Global Head of Financial and OTC Products

 



Thank you very much, Terry. As Terry said the financials unit saw a number of significant developments in the third quarter, particularly regarding SOFR, the overall rates market and our crypto business. Our Silver futures saw average daily volume grow to 124,000 contracts per day in the third quarter, up over 180% year-over-year, and our open interest grew to over 1 million contracts, up 140% year-over-year. Additionally, in the month of October, we're seeing average daily volume of 227,000 SOFR futures contracts, and open interest of 1.2 million contracts. Over the last 60 days, our SOFR futures ADV made up over 78% of the global SOFR futures volumes and our open interest represents approximately 95%.Further, on July 29, the alternative reference rate committee of the Federal Reserve endorsed CME's one-month, three-month and six-month term SOFR rates. And on September 19, CME began publishing a 12-month term SOFR rate as well. Demand for access to our term SOFR rate is very high, as we have already executed more than 100 term SOFR licenses to market participants, and we are currently working with an additional 300 firms who are also interested in licensing. Our fall backs for Eurodollar futures and options have also been a very strong success since we finalized our rule book back on March 29. SOFR linked open interest includes SOFR futures as well as Eurodollar futures and options that reference a LIBOR rate, which will be set after June 30th, 2023. Those contracts have grown from 11.8 million open interest on March 29, to 16.3 million open interest as of October 25, up 38%.Further, the average daily volume of our SOFR linked futures and options in Q3 was 1.6 million contracts, representing 52% of CME's total short-term interest rate ADV. In addition, our long-held view regarding the rates market environment continues to gain veracity. Using CME's FedWatch Tool, we can see the market is now pricing in a 60% chance of tightening by June 2022, up from just 17% just one month ago. Our FedWatch Tool also now indicates an 87% chance of at least two Fed tightenings by the December 2022 FOMC meeting.In Q3, the improving rates environment, as Terry said, led to a 53% growth in our interest rates ADV versus third quarter of 2020. Nonetheless, rate volatility while higher in the third quarter of 2021 than it was in recent quarters remained historically quite low. For example, in the eighth quarterly Eurodollar futures, it achieved just the 37th percentile of volatility versus the history going back to 2007. And our 10-year note futures achieved only a 25th percentile volatility rank showing the current volatility, even in Q3, was very low.Regarding CME Group's crypto offering, first, let me say, the recent approval of ETFs based on CME Bitcoin futures is not only an important milestone for futures contracts but also a positive development for the broader Bitcoin ecosystem. This is a direct reflection of the strong growth in client demand or exposure to Bitcoin via CME's transparent, deeply liquid and regulated Cryptocurrency futures contract. The launch of ETFs based on CME's Bitcoin futures' validation from the industry of what we've known for some time, attaining Bitcoin futures are the leading source a Bitcoin price discovery in the industry.Two new Bitcoin ETFs were launched just last week and another this morning, both of which are based on -- or all 3 of which are based on CME's Bitcoin futures. On the back of those launches, our Bitcoin futures' October ADV has risen to over 12,000 contracts. We're over 60,000 equivalent Bitcoin with a record 3.5 billion per day, up 57% over September. Additionally, average open interest in our Bitcoin futures has grown to a record 17,433 contracts, up 70% versus September. Our Micro Bitcoin futures volume is also up 33% month-over-month and our average open interest is up 97% month-over-month. With that, I'll turn it over to Derek.Derek Sammann -- Senior Managing Director, Global Head of Commodities and Options ProductsThanks, Sean. As Terry mentioned at the top of the call, we have seen a strong return of activity in our Global Energy business in the second half of this year, with both crude oil and natural gas prices hitting multiyear highs. Overall, this has helped our Global Energy business to deliver average daily volume growth of 18% in the third quarter, led by energy options up 26% year-on-year. WTI futures reached the $84 barrel mark earlier this month for the first time since 2014, as OPEC maintained caution on production increases and as U.S. shells steadily recovers from the 2020 decline. Prices were further boosted from returning global demand as economies reopened. In the U.S., gasoline consumption reached 10 million barrels a day in July, marking an all-time monthly high.Activity in WTI crude-oil futures saw a 26% jump in average daily volume in the third quarter and 990,000 contracts. The WTI options average daily volume jumping 45%, 129,000 contracts. This helped us to deliver strong daily volume growth in our refined products portfolio as well with our gasoline product volume up 20% to 196,000 contracts and our heating oil products daily trading volume up 10%, to 154,000 contracts. This has helped set the stage for the significant success that we've delivered with our Micro WTI futures contract. Launched on July 12th of this year, as Terry mentioned, we surpassed 1 million contracts traded in the first 20 trading days, we've already traded more than 4.3 million contracts since launch. Most importantly, this innovative new contract is attracting brand new global customers to our energy market, as evidenced by the fact that almost 10,000 Micro WTI customers have not traded any other CME Group crude oil product in 2021. These new customers come from 118 different countries and represent over 50% of our Micro WTI customer base. So, this has been a significant source of new clients acquisition for us.At the same time, we have also seen the natural gas market experience the highest price level in over 13 years, with U.S. Henry Hub futures hitting the high price of $6.45 earlier this month, more than tripling in price than the COVID-driven March 2020 lows. The resulting increase in volatility has boosted our Henry Hub futures business with September average daily volume of 496,000 contracts up 11% year-on-year. Henry Hub options were particularly strong in the third quarter with average daily volume of 18% to 124,000 contracts, achieving our best months of August and September ever. Participation has been strong from our commercial customers and we've seen our natural gas futures and options open interest up to 6.2 million contracts in September, which is the highest level we've seen since January 2018.So, overall, we're seeing that the investments we're making in our product portfolio, our global client developments and our technology pay strong dividends as market volatility returns, as our customer base manages their energy risk in CME Group's global benchmark products.With that, I'll turn it over to John to discuss the financial results.John W. Pietrowicz -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Derek. During the third quarter, CME generated more than $1.1 billion in revenue with average daily volume up 14% compared to the same period last year. Expenses were very carefully managed and on an adjusted basis were $412 million for the quarter and $355 million, excluding license fees. CME had an adjusted effective tax rate of 23.3% which resulted in adjusted diluted EPS of $1.60, up 16% from the third quarter last year.Capital expenditures for the quarter were approximately $33 million. CME paid out more than $300 million of dividends during the third quarter and cash at the end of the quarter was approximately $1.6 billion. At the start of September, CME and IHS Market launched OSTTRA, our post-trade services joint venture. As a result, CME will no longer be recording revenue and expenses associated with our post-trade businesses, but will be recording our share of the joint venture earnings in the equity and net earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries line of our income statement. For the month of September, CME would have recorded approximately $22 million in revenue and $11 million in expenses but instead, recorded approximately $8 million in our share of the adjusted earnings of the joint venture. When you take into consideration tax implications and providing support services for the joint venture, there was essentially no impact to our overall earnings.Turning to guidance, we now expect total adjusted operating expenses for 2021, excluding license fees, and reflecting the impact of our joint venture to come in at approximately $1.5 billion, down about $30 million from our guidance at the start of the year. All other guidance remains unchanged.Finally, we are very pleased to say we achieved our planned $200 million in cumulative run rate expense synergies related to the NEX acquisition this quarter. Please refer to the last page of our executive commentary for additional financial highlights and details. We would like to now open the call -- up the call for your questions. Based on the number of analysts covering us, please limit yourself to one question and then feel free to jump back into the queue. Thank you.