  OperatorGood day, everyone and welcome to the Bank of America second-quarter earnings announcement. [Operator instructions] And it is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Lee McEntire. Please go ahead.Lee McEntire -- Investor Relations Contact Thank you, Catherine. Good morning. Thank you for joining the call to review our second-quarter results. Hopefully, you've had a chance to review our earnings release documents.

 



 As usual, they're available, including the earnings presentation that we'll be referring to during the call, on our investor relations section of the bankofamerica.com website. I'm going to first turn the call over to our CEO, Brian Moynihan, for some opening comments. And then Paul Donofrio, our CFO, will cover the details of the quarter. Before I turn the call over to Brian and Paul, let me just remind you, we may make some forward-looking statements and refer to non-GAAP financial measures during the call regarding various elements of the financial results.Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, and they are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to materially differ from expectations are detailed in our earnings materials, our SEC filings on our website. Information about the non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliations to U.S. GAAP, can also be found in our earnings materials that are on our website. So with that, let me turn it over to you, Brian. It's all yours. Brian Moynihan -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Good morning and thank all of you for joining us, and thank you, Lee. Today, Bank of America reported $9.2 billion in after-tax net income or $1.03 per diluted share. These results included a few items worth highlighting, and I'm on Page 2 ahead of Paul going through the details. First, as asset quality continue to improve and the economy continue to recover, we released $2.2 billion of credit reserves established in the first half of last year. The idea that a company with our credit quality and other industry participants would be releasing reserves this quarter is not new news, but the reality is at BAC, we're seeing credit quality levels that are very strong. Net charge-offs fell to 25-year low as a percentage of loans, not just raw dollar amount. Let me mention a few items I don't believe were industrywide or expected at BAC. We recorded a $2 billion positive income tax adjustment following last month's enactment of an increase in U.K. corporate income tax rate to 25%. This required a remeasurement of our deferred tax asset, which just reversed the write-downs from previous years when the tax rates were lower. In addition, our expense level included two things I would note. These add up to about $800 million. With our strong results and the tax benefit, we took the opportunity to prefund $500 million to our charitable foundation. This accelerates our planned funding for not only the rest of this year, but for the next year as well. This is not new money, just utilizing some of the tax benefit to cover future expense. We also recorded roughly $300 million of expense associated with processing transactional card claims related to state unemployment benefits.

 



 This represents, to a large degree, a catch-up as we move through claim backlogs. Away from these items, we produced another quarter of solid earnings and showed evidence of good client activity in an economy that continue to recover from the pandemic. Now as we all know, the healthcare crisis has shown improvement and the economy has recovered. Progress on vaccinations, along with the continued support of fiscal monetary policies, has promoted a full and speedy recovery and return to economic health. We, like others, are reopening our facilities, and we're seeing more products being sold by our teammates in addition to the continued digital engagement at very high levels. Our advisors and bankers and relationship managers are once again meeting with clients face-to-face, building even the stronger relationships. We are seeing customer demand continue to grow given the opportunities our companies see. I want to take a minute or two on the economy and -- if you go to Slide 3. We have included a few slides highlighting our customer data. Let me hit a few highlights. The GDP growth estimates by our BofA Securities Research team for the second-quarter stand at 10% and stand at 7% for the full-year 2021. And the reopenings further driving projections of an economy has continued to grow at a rate above the prepandemic periods into '23. Also, the unemployment rate dropped below 6% this quarter projected by economies to continue to fall. You also note the stability to increase consumer spending from our own BAC customers, which is not only much higher than the same periods in 2020, which you would expect, but is notably 22% higher than the first half of '21 compared to 2019. And you can see that in the lower right of the page. That growth rate in '19 was already growing strongly before the pandemic. A few comments regarding the characteristics of spending I think are interesting. We are halfway through the year, and the total payments through those -- through all the different means are $1.8 trillion. That's 60% of last year's level. Last year, indeed, was a record even though it was suppressed in various periods when businesses were shut down. More specifically, for the second quarter, the total BAC consumer small business payments set a fourth quarterly consecutive record, reaching $976 billion, up 41% year over year and 23% over '19. The trend has also continued into early July. Spending accelerated as COVID vaccinations increase, business reopen and domestic travel increase. Combined spend at retailers and services comprises over 50% of debit and credit card spending, a portion of the total spend. That increased 27% over 2019 second quarter but did slow a bit toward the end of the quarter as consumers moved their attention and started taking summer leisure trips and activity. You can see that by noting a return of travel and entertainment spending, which comprises about 10% of debit credit card spend. You can see we're recovering travel remains below 2000 -- we're recovering travel remains below 2019 spending levels. Switching to travel, up a bit. As of mid-June, domestic airline purchases were up 8% over 2019 while international airline purchase on our cards are still down approximately 40%, showing the difference of the progress against the war on the virus in United States versus other places. Now, let's go to Slide 4. We just put this chart in to show you that the consumers are paying their bills. We've shown this each quarter so you could see that the actual card delinquency levels continue to edge down even as people are out and circulating the economy. Before we go to Paul, I want to comment specifically on three areas of interest to you, loan growth, NII and expense. And we can do that on Pages 5 and 6. So first on loans. Paul and I are going to show you the average loans. Paul will show you that later. End-of-period loans, I'll show you in a minute and long-term trends, which are on Page 5. What all these figures point to is accelerating growth during the quarter, as we've spoken about on occasion. This quarter, we saw loan levels across most every business move past stabilization begin to make progress. Companies need to build inventory, hire workers to meet the growing customer demand. This virtuous circle of hiring workers and meeting customer spending will help drive the economy and hopefully will result in more line usage on all levels. You can see the path on Slide 5 of loans since the pandemic started in March 2020. As you can see, all of them are turning up in recent months. But moving to Slide 6, you see the more traditional detail for our company. Let's start on the lower right-hand side of that slide and talking about the commercial portfolio. Commercial loan balances after adjusting for the reductions in PPP loans for quarter 2 forgiveness grew $15 billion. This is led by global markets client borrowing activity. But beyond that and still excluding the PPP loan forgiveness, middle-market lending group and our business banking team finally had growth in the month of June 2021, a first since last March. Fueling some of this improvement is calling effectiveness. Relationship managers that have increased their calling efforts were now aggressively calling on targeted prospects. And with vaccination progress, face-to-face meetings have nearly doubled each month over the past 90 days. Commercial loans wealth management clients grew an impressive 5% in the quarter as these customers borrow through our custom lending products. In small business, our practice solutions group, which supports medical, dental and veterinary practices, has been building throughout the quarter, and small business production overall is back to prepandemic levels. Turning to consumer loans. Overall growth of end-of-period loans was $6 billion. Card loans grew with increased spending even as customer payment percentages remained high. Auto originations have grown fairly consistently, although recently lower dealer supplies have affected that. Mortgage balance growth, which is a big part of our loan portfolio in consumer, has been a challenge in the low-rate environment with high refinancing volumes exceeding originations in past quarters. We are only modestly down this quarter as our origination volumes are finally overcoming the payoffs. We are pleased with the trajectory through the period, and that feeds into the second half of the year. While average loans drive -- that loan balances during the third quarter will drive NII. It's good to start with a trend that has reversed the past quarters' declines. On NII, the good news is that we correctly called the bottom three quarters ago. We told you that we thought the third quarter of 2020 would be the trough. Despite the volatility and lower-rate moves and significant decline in loans, we've been able to hold NII at that level or more for three straight quarters. We expect it to move higher and Paul is going to discuss that later. The other area I want to comment on is expense. We saw -- on a reported basis, we saw a $0.5 billion in expense reduction from first quarter of '21 to second quarter of '21. This quarter, we also had about $800 million in notable items for the aforementioned charitable contribution on unemployment claims process. Absent those notable items, expense would have been down about $1 billion and in the low $14 billion range. This is a level we are targeting to expense as we move through the rest of the year. In the second half of the year, as we normalize our operations, we'll continue to return our business as usual, working on process improvements that allow us to reduce our headcount and to continue to fund franchise investments. Headcount in the second quarter, including -- excluding the summer interns, declined by roughly 2,500 or over 1% from the first quarter. So the messages for this quarter is straightforward. The organic growth machine that we had rolling before the pandemic hit is reemerging as the economy normalizes. We start to be careful to ensure that the war on the virus stays won, but we're seeing great trends. In retail and preferred and small business, we saw a strong production of core transaction accounts above prepandemic levels. This quarter was our best net sales growth in checking account since the second-quarter 2015. We saw our card production about 90% overall prepandemic. But net cards -- net of runoff were positive, the first time since the quarter -- first quarter of 2020 when we entered the pandemic. We saw growth in new Merrill Edge investment accounts, and Paul will talk to you about that. We saw a good mortgage production. We saw a stronger digital activity. In wealth management, we saw household growth and strong flows continue to grow even with the use of our banking platform to grow its credit side. In Global Banking, we saw loan growth and new production coming on while line usage still remains very low. We saw investment banking closed this quarter with record pipelines. In markets, we saw a strong first half even compared to 2020 and a strong second quarter, albeit with more normal seasonal impact. So normalizing more like '19 but still higher. And we saw headcount come down as operational excellence kicks in by over 2,000 people. We have work to do to keep driving down the core expenses and getting out the net COVID expenses over time. And above all, due to responsible growth, we saw strong core credit metrics. So as the economy continues to recover, we are seeing our organic growth engine kick back in. With that, I'll turn it over to Paul.Paul Donofrio -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Brian. Hello, everyone. I'm starting on Slide 7. As I have done in the past few quarters, the majority of my comments or excuse me, my comparisons will be relative to the prior quarter rather than year over year given the pandemic. Since Brian already covered a lot of the income statement, I will just add a couple of comments on revenue and returns. Revenue was down 6% from Q1. The decline was driven by lower sales and trading results that more than offset solid consumer and wealth management revenue, which was a result of higher card income and AUM fees. It is also worth noting that while investment banking fees were down from a record Q1 level, they remained strong at more than $2 billion in Q2. Lastly, when comparing revenue against the prior-year quarter, remember, Q2 '20 included a $704 million gain on the sale of some mortgage loans. With respect to returns, our return on tangible common equity was 20% and ROA was 123 basis points, both benefiting from the positive tax adjustment and sizable reserve release. Moving to Slide 8. Balance sheet expanded $60 billion versus Q1 to a little more than $3 trillion in total assets. Deposit growth of $24 billion supported $16 billion of loan growth while the combination of market-based funding and long-term debt issuance supported expansion of the balance sheet in global markets. Other notable movements on the balance sheet included the continued deployment of excess cash into securities. Securities increased $83 billion while cash declined $66 billion. Driven by the additional deposit growth, our liquidity portfolio remained above $1 trillion or one-third of the balance sheet. Shareholders' equity increased $3 billion as earnings outpaced capital distribution. Capital distributions of $5.8 billion were limited to the average of earnings in the previous four quarters for regulatory guidelines and were well below the $9 billion earned in the quarter. With respect to regulatory ratios, consistent with Q1, standardized remained the binding approach for us and was down a little less than 30 basis points from Q1. While the CET1 ratio declined 30 basis points in Q1, it remained 200 basis points above our minimum requirement of 9.5%, which translates into a $31 billion capital cushion. While book value rose $3 billion, regulatory capital was up $1 billion as the $2 billion tax adjustment did not benefit CET1 capital. Higher RWA from the liquidity deployed to securities growth in our markets balance sheet and higher GWIM loan activity more than offset the benefit to the ratio from higher capital. Our supplemental leverage ratio at quarter end was 5.9%, dropping from the prior quarter primarily due to the removal of the regulatory relief. 5.9% versus a minimum requirement of 5% equates to approximately $600 billion of balance sheet capacity, which leaves us plenty of room for growth. Our TLAC ratio remained comfortably above our requirements. Turning to Slide 9. Brian reviewed ending loan balances earlier, so I will focus on average balances, which are more closely linked to NII. As you look at the year-over-year trends, note that these numbers include PPP loans, which have been moving lower now for two quarters driven by forgiveness. You can see the change in those PPP levels on the slide. Focusing on the linked quarter change. While loans on an ending basis were up nicely, on an average basis even with a $3 billion decline in PPP balances, loans were flat. Wealth management and global markets experienced the most notable improvements. GWIM continued to benefit from security-based lending as well as custom lending while continuing to have solid mortgage performance. In global markets, we looked for opportunities to lend to clients against a number of different asset types, creating mostly investment-grade exposures as a good use of our liquidity. In Consumer, we saw credit card loans stabilize for the first time in more than a year as credit spending ramped up and new accounts continued to build across the quarters. Quarterly new account levels are nearly back to 2019 levels. With respect to deposits on Slide 10, we continued to see significant growth across the client base not only because of the growth in the money supply, but also because we added new accounts and attracted increased liquidity from existing customers. I would just note that the linked quarter growth on a spot basis included a headwind of about $34 billion from customer income tax outflow. Normally, we see deposits decline in the second quarter given tax payments. But this year, we saw strong growth even with these tax payments. Turning to Slide 11 and net interest income. On a GAAP non-FTE basis, NII for Q2 was $10.2 billion, $10.3 billion on an FTE basis. Net interest income declined a little more than $600 million from Q2 '20 driven by the rate environment and lower loan balances, but showed modest improvement from Q1. Year-over-year comparisons beginning next quarter are expected to improve nicely as Q3 '20 has proven to be the nadir for NII. And we are expecting NII improvement in Q3 and Q4. Compared to Q1, the benefit of an additional day of interest and liquidity deployed was offset by a lower level of PPP loan forgiveness, the absence of proceeds recorded in NII from the Q1 litigation settlement and modestly higher premium amortization expense. The net interest yield declined 7 basis points from Q1 driven by the continued addition of lower-yielding debt securities in Q1 and Q2 and a larger global markets balance sheet. Remember, as part of our liquidity that remain, I would include about $150 billion of debt securities hedged to floating, which earned a bit more than cash. As you'll note, given all the deposit growth at low rates, our asset sensitivity to rising rates remain significant and mostly unchanged from Q1, highlighting the value of our deposits and customer relationships. Let me give you a couple of thoughts around NII for the back half of the year. Last quarter, when the forward interest rate environment was 30 to 40 basis points higher, we told you we were targeting NII at roughly $1 billion higher in Q4 of this year. This quarter's loan growth is encouraging and supportive of this target and the slowdown in mortgage prepayments should also help improve NII. So while we still think getting NII $1 billion higher by 4Q is possible, admittedly, the recent significant decline in long-end rates presents a challenge. This possibility, of course, assumes loans continue to grow in the second half and rates don't move lower from here. To improve our chances, we could decide to deploy additional liquidity at higher fixed rates in the coming weeks and months as we evaluate the trade-offs between liquidity, capital and earnings. Turning to Slide 12 and expenses. Q2 expenses were $15 billion, $0.5 billion lower than Q1. While lower than Q1, the combination of the $500 million contribution to the foundation and the nearly $300 million increase in costs associated with unemployment claims processing kept expenses above the low $14 billion target shared with you last quarter. Outside of these two items, expense was lower driven by the absence of a few Q1 items, seasonal payroll taxes, the real estate impairment charge and the acceleration of expense due to incentive comp award changes. Additionally, lower incentive comp and severance costs also contributed to the decline. Lastly, our COVID cost saw a modest decline as some pandemic-related employee programs began to roll off, but this was mitigated to a certain degree by preparation costs for associates returning to the office. As we go to the segments, I would just note that the sizable foundation contribution was allocated to the lines of business and therefore, negatively impact comparisons to prior quarters. As we look forward, we continue to invest at a high rate in people and in technology and in new financial centers. We are seeing the benefits of these investments. And now as we move forward, we expect that natural attrition will allow us to reduce headcount as we transition back to a more normal business environment. As Brian mentioned, excluding summer interns, our headcount this quarter moved down by about 2,500 people. Turning to asset quality on Slide 13. Nothing but good news to report here. Net charge-offs this quarter fell to $595 million or 27 basis points of average loans. This is the lowest loss rate in more than two decades. That is 28% lower than Q1 and more than 30% below the second quarter of 2019. Our credit card loss rate was 2.67%, and several loan product categories were in recovery positions this quarter. Provision was $1.6 billion -- was a $1.6 billion benefit -- net benefit driven by the continued improvement in the macroeconomic outlook, which resulted in the $2.2 billion release of credit reserves split fairly evenly between consumer and commercial loans. Our allowance as a percent of loans and leases ended the quarter at 1.55%, which is still well above the 1.27%, which was the level as we begun 2020 following our day 1 adoption of CECL. And as a reminder, the mix of our loans has also changed since CECL day 1. To the extent the economic outlook and remaining uncertainties continue to improve, we expect our reserve levels could move lower. OK. On Slide 14, we show the credit quality metrics for both the consumer and commercial portfolios, a couple of points I would make here. With respect to card losses, given the continued low level of late-stage delinquencies in the 180-day pipeline, we would expect card losses to decline again in Q3. For at least the next couple of quarters, I would expect total net charge-offs to moderate around the current level with lower card losses partially offset by lower net recoveries and other products. With respect to commercial metrics, reservable criticized exposure and NPLs both declined in the quarter. Turning to the business segments and starting with consumer on Slide 15. Consumer banking produced another good quarter with strong customer deposit and investment flows and the return of card loan growth. This reflects the strength of our brand, our digital innovations and the deployment of specialists in our centers, all of which enabled us to capture more than our fair share of the increase in customer liquidity. As Brian said earlier, this was a quarter of reopening where both our high-tech and high-touch capabilities delivered growth in client activity. Given vaccination progress, we reopened certain financial centers, more of our associates were at their posts in our financial centers and customer traffic was up. All of the above drove higher sales in our centers. At the same time, we also saw increased sales through digital channels, which suggests increases in digital engagement are here to stay. The segment earned $3 billion in Q2, 13% higher than Q1 as revenue, expense and credit costs all showed improvement. Revenue improved 1%, reflecting higher card income on increased purchase volumes and modestly higher account service charges on ATM usage. Expenses moved lower versus Q1 given the absence of the Q1 real estate impairment costs and seasonal higher payroll tax expense. We also saw some modest improvement in COVID costs as some of the elevated pandemic-related associated costs began to wind down. Our cost of deposits this quarter improved to an impressive 118 basis points. The team has done a great job of servicing more and more deposits while maintaining a strong cost discipline aided by digital engagement. Looking back at Q2 '19, we have added 38% more deposits while expenses have only increased a little more than 3% annually in support of all that new activity even with COVID. On Slide 16, you can see the significant increase in consumer deposits and investments. Average deposits of $979 billion are up $55 billion linked quarter and nearly $170 billion from Q2 '20 with more than 60% of that growth in checking. Rate paid is down to 2 basis points as 56% of the deposits are low-interest checking. We covered loans earlier, but I would just note that while average loans are down linked quarter, period-end loans are up modestly, excluding PPP, as growth in card balances and vehicle lending outpaced a small decline in mortgages. With respect to investment balances, we reached a new record of $346 billion, growing 40% year over year as customers continue to recognize the value of our online offering. OK. On Slide 17, I'll highlight a couple of points regarding the continued improvement in engagement. After crossing 40 million digital users in Q1, we added another 0.25 million users in Q2. This quarter, 70% of our consumer households use some part of our digital platform. We also reached 2.6 billion log-ins from customers in the last 90 days. And while you will note the tremendous Erica and Zelle usage, what I would draw your attention to is the digital sales growth, which is up 26% year over year. 85% of booked mortgages in the quarter were done digitally while 77% of direct vehicle loans were digital. Turning to wealth management. The continued economic reopening and strong market conditions led to records in average deposits, loans, investment balances and asset management fees in Q2. Both Merrill and the private bank contributed to this improvement. Growth in gross new households at Merrill continued and the average size of the new households is larger this year than last year. And at the same time, net new households grew but at a slower pace given expensive competitive hiring practice across the industry. We remain committed to organic growth in our advisors and private client sales force as a stronger, more sustainable long-term strategy. Net income of nearly $1 billion improved 12% from Q1 as we saw improvement in both revenue and expense. With respect to revenue, the record AUM fees complemented higher NII on the back of solid loan and deposit increases. Expenses dropped as the absence of seasonally elevated payroll tax in Q1 was partially offset by higher revenue-related costs. Client balances rose to a record of $3.7 trillion, up $725 billion year over year driven by higher market levels as well as strong client flows. Let's skip to Slide 20, which highlights our progress to digitally engage wealth management clients. In both Merrill Lynch and the Private Bank, we are focused on three pillars for digital engagement. One, digital adoption and deeper engagement. Two, modernizing our platform for advisors and clients and three, secure and easy collaboration with clients. We provided stats on Slide 20 that show record levels of digital engagement improved further in Q2. These are some of the highest levels of digital activity across our customers. More and more clients are logging in to easily trade, check balances and originate loans all through one simplified sign-on. 70% of checks deposited by the private bank clients and more than half of checks from Merrill clients are being deposited digitally now. And through leveraging Erica-based AI capabilities and through use of WebEx meetings and secure text messaging, we are making it easy and more efficient for clients to do business with us wherever and however they choose. This creates additional capacity for our advisors to spend more time with existing and potential clients. All right. Moving to Global Banking on Slide 21. The business earned $2.4 billion in Q2, improving $251 million from Q1. Strong revenue growth and lower expenses were mitigated by a lower provision benefit than Q1. Deposit growth maintained or remained strong and increased $20 billion to a new record. Outside of PPP loan figures, we saw modest growth across the platform, as discussed earlier. Revenue growth reflected the absence of the prior quarter impairment on clean energy investments as well as increased ESG investments. Revenue also included strong firmwide IB fees of $2.1 billion, down only modestly from the record Q1 level. This performance resulted in an improvement to a No. 3 ranking in overall fees with a pipeline that remains strong. Strong debt issuance was more than offset by lower equity underwriting fees. We had a provision benefit driven by a reserve release of $834 million in Q2, which was $328 million lower than the Q1 release. Net charge-offs were near 0, reflecting both low charge-offs and a notable recovery in the quarter. Non-interest expense declined 7% from Q1, reflecting lower compensation partially offset by other costs. We've already covered much of the balance sheet on Slide 22, so let's get to digital trends on Slide 23. We continued our investments in digital solutions that deliver the efficiencies for both clients and our employees. The solutions for clients have a compounded effect since they invariably mean less manual intervention by the bank, enhancing both efficiency and satisfaction. Enhanced banking solutions are helping us capture greater market share as wholesale clients do more with their banking partners -- do more with banking partners that are stable and secure and that have the capability to invest in new technologies that will provide better data and global integrated solutions. Digitization and in particular artificial intelligence is helping us streamline processes and respond to clients more quickly and efficiently. As an example, our bankers are using technology powered by Erica to not only better manage credit exposure, but also identify and win new business. We present some wholesale digital highlights on Slide 23. Switching to global markets on Slide 24. Results reflect solid but lower sales and trading activity, as noted earlier. While down from the more elevated pandemic periods, trading revenue is still 10% or so higher from Q2 '19. As I usually do, I will talk about results excluding DVA. This quarter, net DVA was negligible, but the year ago quarter had a $261 million loss. global markets produced $934 million of earnings in Q2, down more than $1.1 billion compared to either Q1 or the year ago quarter. Focusing on the year over year. Revenue was down 15% driven by the reduction in sales and trading. The year-over-year expense increase was driven by higher costs associated with processing unemployment claims and the activity related to sales and trading costs. Compared to Q1 expense, the higher unemployment processing costs were mostly offset by lower compensation. Sales and trading contributed $3.6 billion to revenue, declining 19% year over year. FICC declined 38% while equities improved 33%, recording one of the strongest equity performances in our history. FICC results reflected the much more robust trading environment in the year ago period, particularly for macro products. Q2 '21 saw credit tightened and agency mortgages endured a difficult trading environment given the volatility of rates. The strength in equities was driven by a strong trading performance in derivatives and increased client activity notably in derivatives and in Asia. On Slide 25, we note half year revenue trends across the last few years. As you can see, while the pandemic elevated results in 2020, 2021 remains well above the prior years presented driven by continued client activity and volatility in the market. Finally, on Slide 26, we show all other, which reported profit of $1.9 billion. The $2 billion tax adjustment benefited results. Absent this benefit, we would have reported $137 million loss, which is a decline of $239 million from Q1 '21 driven by lower revenue. Revenue declined $545 million, reflecting two impacts. First, higher partnership losses on ESG -- on increased ESG investments. As you know, we record grossed-up revenue from these investments on an FTE basis in Global Banking, paid the full tax there and then backed out those entries in all other. You can also see the increase in ESG investment in Q2 in other income on our consolidated income statement where partnership losses are booked. While this loss impacts revenue, it is more than made up for on the tax line. We expect our tax credits and associated losses in consolidated other income to increase by at least $100 million in Q3. And keep in mind, Q4 is normally even higher, reflecting seasonal activity. Revenue in all other was also impacted by some refinancing activity. We called and refinanced higher cost structured notes, which pushed some AOCI back to the income statement. Our effective tax rate this quarter, excluding the $2 billion tax adjustment, was 10.7%. And further excluding tax credits driven by our portfolio of ESG investments, our tax rate would have been 25%. For the second half of '21 absent any changes in current tax laws or any other unusual items, we expect our effective tax rate to be in a range of 10% to 12%. OK. With that, we're ready to go to Q&A. 