  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the General Motors Company fourth quarter 2022 earnings conference call. During the opening remarks, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the opening remarks, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. We are asking analysts to please limit yourself to one question and a brief follow-up. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded, Tuesday, February 1, 2022. I would now like to turn the conference over to Rocky Gupta, treasurer and vice president of investor relations.Rocky Gupta -- Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Jordan. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we review GM's financial results for the fourth quarter and calendar year 2021. Our conference call materials were issued earlier this afternoon and are available on the GM investor relations website. We are also broadcasting this call via webcast. I'm joined today by GM's chair and CEO, Mary Barra; GM's CFO, Paul Jacobson; GM Financial's CEO, Dan Berce; and Cruise co-founder, Kyle Vogt. Kyle will be available to speak about Cruise's exciting progress in the Q&A portion of the call. Before we begin, I would like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statements on the first page of the chart set. The content of our call will be governed by this language.We'll now turn the call over to Mary. Mary Barra -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Rocky, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us. Before we get into our 2021 results and 2022 outlook, I want to start with some exciting news from Cruise, which is one of our most significant growth opportunities. Kyle, Dan Kan, Gil West, and the entire Cruise team are doing great work, and they just delivered a key milestone on the drive to commercialization -- to commercialize Cruise rideshare service. As Kyle has shared, Cruise team members have been taking fully driverless rides in San Francisco since November to demonstrate and refine the software and hardware ecosystem we have created together. In fact, they have logged over 20,000 miles and completed more than 600 trips. I rode in a driverless Cruise a couple of weeks ago, and I can tell you it was the highlight of my career as an engineer and as the leader of General Motors. The ride is smooth and confident. It's like having an experienced and attentive driver behind the wheel. Now, as Cruise announced this morning, it is inviting members of the public to sign up for their own driverless rides through a waitlist on the Cruise website. This is the first truly driverless ride-hail service offered to members of the public in a dense urban environment. To maximize its learnings, Cruise will prioritize use cases that are a natural fit for autonomous ridesharing. This major milestone brings Cruise even closer to offering its first paid rides and generating $50 billion in annual revenue by the end of the decade. It also means that the SoftBank Vision Fund will invest, as planned, another $1.35 billion in Cruise. This is another strong vote of confidence in the Cruise team, its technology, and the services it's creating. Additionally, Cruise continues to advance the strong relationship it has established with Walmart, where the team is making progress on driverless deliveries of groceries to customers every day. With this incremental investment and the investments from General Motors in companies like Honda, Microsoft, and Walmart, Cruise is very well capitalized to scale its business when the Origin production comes online at Factory ZERO late this year. So Kyle, congrats. Now I want to turn to the significant investments we are making to expand both our battery cell and EV assembly capacity. We believe our strategy to scale a common Ultium Cell, component set, and platform will create significant long-term value for all GM stakeholders. We also recognize that we need to launch more EVs faster. So that's exactly what we are going to do. As you know, the GMC HUMMER EV is already in the market. Cadillac LYRIQ deliveries begin in less than 60 days, and additional BrightDrop EV600 production begins at CAMI late this year, where we'll launch with an annual capacity of 30,000 units and the ability to nearly double production by mid-decade. The Chevrolet Silverado EV launches next spring, and the Chevrolet Equinox and Blazer EVs will also reach the market in 2023. We have the teams working to accelerate the volume curves for all of these launches and to resume both EV and EUV production as soon as possible. And we have set a target to deliver 400,000 EVs in North America over the course of 2022 and 2023. As you know, we have also announced additional battery cell and assembly capacity investments in Michigan that will give us more than 1 million units of EV capacity in North America by the end of 2025, and this includes 600,000 full-size trucks. This is in addition to more than 1 million units of EV capacity in China over the same time frame. And I can tell you right now, 1 million units in North America won't be enough to meet the steep inflection in demand that we expect starting mid-decade for our EVs. That's why we will continue to convert ICE capacity to EVs and plan to invest in a third EV truck plant. We are formulating plans for the truck plant right now, and we will share more as we work through the details. Importantly, battery cells will not be a constraint to our long-term EV growth. Our Ultium cell JVs in Ohio and Tennessee come online in 2022 and 2023, respectively. And we will add capacity as demand grows. Our Ohio plant will launch with seven-day operations, adding 10% capacity and 200 jobs. Cell production in Michigan is scheduled to begin in late 2024. And I'm sharing today that we will announce the location of our fourth U.S. cell plant in the first half of this year. Together, these plants will support GM's EV volume growth and supply our customers in the rail, trucking, aerospace, and marine industries. Equally important for our EV strategy for North America is that it is backed by a strong, more sustainable, North American-focused supply chain that includes lithium, rare earth material, permanent magnets, cathode active material, silicon carbide, motor stators, and more. To deliver this acceleration, we are pulling ahead significant investment into the 2022 to 2025 time frame, and we will share more details as we further refine our plans. Growing customer demand for the first wave of Ultium products strongly supports these investments. We already have more than 59,000 reservations for the GMC HUMMER EV pickup and SUV. Not surprisingly, some of the first owners are very prominent figures in the sports and entertainment industries, and their initial feedback has been just incredible. They expected a super truck, and they got one. Our next electric pickup will be the Chevrolet Silverado EV. More than 110,000 Silverado EVs are reserved so far, including reservations from more than 240 fleet operators, and the numbers keep growing every day. Some of the world's largest fleet customers, including FedEx, Verizon, Merchants Fleet, and Walmart, are adopting BrightDrop vehicles and their technology. All told, we have more than 25,000 production reservations for BrightDrop cargo vans. And customer interest in the Cadillac LYRIQ is growing so quickly that we'll forgo a new round of reservations and begin taking customer orders soon after the Debut Edition launches in March. One of our most highly anticipated reveals this year will be the Chevrolet Equinox EV, which we previewed in January. The Verge named it the best electric car of CES, saying, "There's a perception that electric vehicles are luxury items. So when General Motors said the Equinox would come with a $30,000 sticker price, it's something worth noting." The efficiencies created by the Ultium platform are a key reason why we will be able to deliver truly affordable EVs like the Equinox. Affordable EVs are part of the market that start-ups aren't targeting, but they are key to driving mass adoption of EVs, which is a national and a global priority. That's why we plan to follow the Equinox with an even more affordable EV. Now let's shift and talk a little bit about our other GM growth platforms. Throughout the year, you will see the expansion of advanced vehicle technologies, new shopping tools, and continued progress at our new business start-ups. This spring, we will launch redesigns of the Chevrolet Silverado and the GMC Sierra 1500 pickups and offer them with Super Cruise with expanded capabilities that include lane change on demand and hands-free trailering. These are firsts for the segment. In the same time frame, GM and our dealers will begin marketing CarBravo, our new used vehicle shopping service. This is truly a win-win. Our dealers will grow their business by offering customers online access to far more inventory than other services. In turn, we expect to drive incremental GM and GM Financial revenue by selling products like OnStar Insurance, OnStar Connected Services, accessories, and financial services. It will also help support strong residual values for off-lease vehicles. Then next year, we'll roll out Ultifi, a new end-to-end software platform for EVs, AVs, and ICE vehicles that will have even more sweeping over-the-air capabilities than we have today. This includes the ability to backcast features to the Cadillac LYRIQ. Ultifi will be the foundation for new GM-developed and approved third-party apps, in-car subscriptions, and other connected services that enhance the customer experience and expand our revenue through the life of each vehicle. We can and we will keep up our aggressive pace backed by strong results. We expect to follow our record EBIT-adjusted earnings in 2021 with another year of record or near-record results in 2022 while investing significantly more year over year to accelerate our growth. Paul will share more details on our results and guidance in his remarks. But before I turn the call over to him, I would like to discuss our capital-allocation strategy. The prospect of continued strong earnings and free cash flow even as we invest for growth naturally raises questions about resuming a common stock dividend. As we move forward, we will consider all opportunities to return excess capital to shareholders, but we will not reinstate a dividend at this time. Our clear priority is to accelerate our EV plan and drive growth, and we want to maintain maximum flexibility to invest as opportunities arise across our growth platforms, including many of the accelerated plans I've outlined today. I think we've consistently demonstrated that we're a team that delivers on our commitments. That's more important now than ever with the incredible opportunities in front of us. So now I'm going to turn the call over to Paul, who will walk us through the quarter and our outlook. Then Paul, Dan Berce, Kyle Vogt, and I will take your questions.Paul Jacobson -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Mary, and good afternoon, everyone. We sincerely appreciate you taking the time to join us. As Mary mentioned, the strong results last year, including record full year EBIT-adjusted and EBIT-adjusted margins, are a reflection of the hard work and execution from our team and the underlying strength of our business. We're seeing strong demand for our products, especially our trucks and SUVs, and we are striving again this year to produce as many of them as we can. I want to thank the entire GM team once more for the execution during this past year. The cash that we generate today is funding the transformation of GM in pursuit of the growth strategy we shared last year at our Investor Day. We see a path to doubling revenue by 2030 while expanding margins with significant opportunities in software, services, and new businesses in electric and autonomous vehicles. Now let's get into the results. While we face the well-publicized global semiconductor challenges and continued pressure from COVID protocols throughout the world, the GM team once again delivered tremendous results in 2021 through our production prioritization and work across our value chain. For the full year, we generated $127 billion in revenue, $14.3 billion in EBIT-adjusted, 11.3% EBIT-adjusted margin, $7.07 in EPS diluted adjusted, and $2.6 billion in adjusted automotive free cash flow. In the fourth quarter, we generated $34 billion in revenue, $2.8 billion in EBIT-adjusted, 8.5% EBIT-adjusted margin, $1.35 in EPS diluted adjusted, and $6.4 billion in adjusted automotive free cash flow. Free cash flow in the quarter was largely driven by working capital rewind as we were able to complete and wholesale over 80,000 vehicles that had previously been built without certain components, as well as dividends from GM Financial. We saw improved semiconductor availability in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter, which enabled us to increase our wholesale sequentially while substantially reducing our inventory of vehicles built without certain components. And we expect ongoing semiconductor availability improvements throughout 2022. We also realized strong price and mix performance in North America through our production prioritization actions and our go-to-market strategy. Additionally, used vehicle prices and strong credit performance continued to drive record results at GM Financial. So let's take a closer look at North America. In Q4, GM North America delivered EBIT-adjusted of $2.2 billion as we continue to see robust customer demand for our products and tight dealer inventory driving strong transaction prices. These results were somewhat better than our December updated guidance expectations as we saw continued volume and cost improvement. On a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter, we saw volume decreases and increased investments in growth, partially offset by pricing and mix. U.S. dealer inventories ended the year at around 200,000 units, of which only approximately 25% is grounded stock, resulting in continued high sales turns of around 10 days. Moving to GM International. In the fourth quarter, GMI EBIT adjusted was approximately $0.3 billion, relatively flat year over year. China equity income was $0.2 billion in the quarter with continued strong mix, stabilization in pricing, and material cost performance, offset by semiconductor and commodity impact. As we referenced last quarter, our international business outside of China has made substantial progress on our path to sustainable profitability. GMI EBIT-adjusted, excluding China equity income, achieved profitability in the fourth quarter despite continued semiconductor pressure, and the Chevrolet brand has regained its retail market share leadership in South America. A few comments on GM Financial and the Corp segment. GM Financial concluded another extremely strong year with Q4 EBT-adjusted of $1.2 billion with record full year EBT-adjusted of $5 billion. GM Financial paid an additional $1.7 billion dividend in Q4. That brings the total GM Financial dividends to $3.5 billion in 2021, equivalent to how much we paid for the company. Going forward, we expect GM Financial dividends to moderate as earnings normalize and we continue to grow the asset base. Corp EBIT-adjusted in Q4 was down year over year by about $0.5 billion, driven by the nonrecurrence of mark-to-market gains recognized in Q4 2020. Now turning to our outlook for 2022. Today, we see a stabilizing semiconductor environment and envision wholesale getting to a normalized run rate toward the beginning of the third quarter with a target of around 800,000 units in North America on a quarterly basis. We expect total company volume to increase 25% to 30% year over year, with the majority of the increase occurring in the second half of the year, primarily due to the production constraints in the second half of 2021. Sequentially, we expect the positive trend to continue with Q1 wholesale volumes up 20% to 25% versus Q4 2021. In 2022, we anticipate light industry sales of approximately 16 million units, dealer stock to remain tight, and the dynamic where production is the gating factor for sales volumes continuing into 2022. As you think about the mix of this incremental volume, remember that in 2021, we largely protected our high-demand truck production. As a result, the incremental volume in 2022 will be mostly weighted toward small and midsized SUVs and sedan. Now let's turn to our expectations for growth investments and margins. We're at a very important stage in the growth and development of some of our key businesses, and we are taking the very intentional step of investing heavily into them to accelerate our expansion. Cruise expenses are expected to increase as they rapidly approach commercialization and hire around 500 additional employees, increasing their workforce by around 20% to advanced technology, as well as accelerate the operational infrastructure to grow and expand. We also expect to see some wage rate pressure as we continue to attract top talent to the company. Corporate expenses are expected to increase by approximately $0.5 billion as we expand the BrightDrop business, including product development and manufacturing spend to prepare the CAMI facility for eLCV production later in the year, and expanding customer pilots for the EP1 electric card, which we expect will drive software and services recurring revenue opportunities. We're going to continue to roll out OnStar Insurance across the country. We're in 46 states today and expect to be in all 50 by the second quarter. We're going to develop new products at GM Defense and continue to incubate new ideas to drive incremental growth and value in the future. We're also expecting to invest another $1.5 billion in expenses to expand software development and further accelerate our EV portfolio, which includes close to $1 billion of incremental engineering and software-related development. These investments are building the foundation to grow and accelerate our AV, EV, and software businesses as we aggressively launch approximately 20 EV products in North America and more than 30 EV products globally through 2025 and introduce Ultifi. These investments will also drive meaningful revenue growth starting in 2023, initially from EVs, BrightDrop, and Cruise, but expanding the software and services as we launch Ultifi and grow other new business opportunities such as OnStar Insurance and GM Defense in the next few years. We're now also expecting commodities and logistics cost pressure of $2.5 billion year over year, primarily weighted to the front half of 2022. From a nonoperating perspective, we expect a combined $1 billion year-over-year headwind from the nonrecurrence of mark-to-market gains we achieved in 2021 and a reduction in net pension income as we further de-risk the planned asset profile. I want to reiterate that despite all of this, we expect to generate 10% North America EBIT-adjusted margins in 2022, inclusive of the increased expenditures related to our growth investments and highlighting our ability to fund these initiatives through internally generated cash flow. In China, we expect equity income from our joint ventures to exceed $1 billion and remain relatively flat year over year. We anticipate a modest increase in volume, which will be offset by a more normalized mix, competitive pricing environment, and increased investments as we prepare to bring more EV products to market. We expect GM Financial performance to be in the $3.5 billion to $4 billion range as we do not expect a repeat of some of the 2021 allowance releases, and we anticipate that credit performance in used vehicle prices will begin to moderate. Assuming continued steady demand for new vehicles, no significant new economic or supply chain challenges in 2022, we expect EBIT-adjusted in the $13 billion to $15 billion range, EPS diluted adjusted in the $6.25 to $7.25 range, and adjusted automotive free cash flow in the $7 billion to $9 billion range. Adjusted automotive free cash flow will be driven by strong earnings and working capital rewind as volumes increase. We expect capital spend to be in the $9 billion to $10 billion range in 2022, including investments in our Ultium battery cell JVs, and expect similar levels of spending over the next several years. In summary, we had a strong finish to the year, and our results are a reflection of the team's focus and execution in the face of a continued challenging environment. In 2022, we expect strong commercial performance, and we are aggressively reinvesting some of our short-term EBIT improvement to accelerate our EV, AV journey while still driving similar results to our record performance in 2021. This demonstrates the strength of our underlying business, the strength of our truck and SUV franchises, our industry-leading customer loyalty, and world-class manufacturing and design capabilities. We will continue to leverage these competitive advantages as we vastly expand our battery cell and EV assembly capacity in North America to lead the industry. This concludes our opening comments, and we'll now move to the Q&A portion of the call. 