  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to S&P Global's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. I'd like to inform you that this call is being recorded for broadcast. [Operator instructions] To access the webcast and slides, go to investor.spglobal.com. [Operator instructions] I would now like to introduce Mr. Mark Grant, senior vice president of investor relations for S&P Global. Sir, you may begin.Mark Grant -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you for joining today's S&P Global first quarter 2022 earnings call. Presenting on today's call are Doug Peterson, president and chief executive officer; and Ewout Steenbergen, executive vice president and chief financial officer. We issued a press release with our results earlier today. If you need a copy of the release and financial schedules, they can be downloaded at investor.spglobal.com. The matters discussed in today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections, estimates and descriptions of future events. Any such statements are based on current expectations and current economic conditions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from results anticipated in these forward-looking statements. A discussion of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our Forms 10-K, 10-Q and other periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.In today's earnings release and during the conference call, we're providing adjusted financial information. This information is provided to enable investors to make meaningful comparisons of the corporation's operating performance between periods and to view the corporation's business from the same perspective as management. The earnings release contains exhibits that reconcile the difference between the non-GAAP measures and the comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. I would also like to call your attention to a European regulation. Any investor who has or expects to obtain ownership of 5% or more of S&P Global should contact investor relations to better understand the potential impact of this legislation on the investor and the company. We are aware that we have some media representatives with us on the call. However, this call is intended for investors, and we would ask that questions from the media be directed to our Media Relations team, whose contact information can be found in the press release. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Doug Peterson. Doug? Doug Peterson -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mark. Welcome to today's first quarter earnings call. I'd like to start by highlighting the historic event that occurred in the first quarter of 2022. We completed our merger with IHS Markit, and I'm incredibly excited to be joining you for our first quarterly earnings call as a combined company. The promise of the merger has already begun to manifest itself in our culture and our financial performance. Beginning with a few financial highlights. We reported strong financial results with adjusted pro forma revenue increasing 2% and adjusted pro forma diluted EPS increasing $0.01 year over year despite one of the most challenging issuance environments in recent history. We saw positive revenue growth in five of our six divisions, including double-digit growth in three of them. Adjusted pro forma expenses increased 8% as we continue to invest in events, people and technology, though much of this expense growth is nonrecurring as we'll discuss later on. We're updating our guidance to reflect the increased uncertainty caused by the macroeconomic and geopolitical landscape. And Ewout will walk through these details in a moment. I'd also like to share a few highlights from the first quarter. As I mentioned, we completed the merger with IHS Markit and had a number of exciting achievements. We announced a $12 billion accelerated share repurchase, or ASR, and launched the first tranche of $7 billion in March with the remainder to be executed by the end of the year. We took advantage of this still historically low interest rate environment to optimize our capital structure and lower our average cost of debt. And we had strong attendance at some of the industry's most important conferences, including CERAWeek, World Petrochemical Conference and TPM22. While we've only been together for two months, we're already starting to see validation of our investment thesis, and the results of our comprehensive planning are paying off. We've begun leveraging technology like Kensho across the broader organization to automate processes and increase efficiencies. We've begun development of several new products and features across the divisions. We're integrating our divisional commercial teams, and we've already closed synergy deals in multiple divisions. I want to take a moment to touch on culture and leadership. We brought our combined leadership team together in person for the first time in March. We were thrilled to see so many of our colleagues brainstorming, planning, working and functioning as if they had already been together for years. We saw the free exchange of ideas, strong proposals for new growth engines and clear alignment on our strategy, purpose and values. We also heard a unified voice among our leadership in support of our People First initiatives and our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion. We came away energized and full of confidence that we'll be able to take the absolute best, not only from each company but from each person in the organization and create something exceptional at S&P Global. I have never been more inspired by our people. And I'm more excited than ever to work with them to drive sustainable, profitable growth. When we announced the merger in November 2020, we noted that we needed regulatory approval in multiple jurisdictions. We received final regulatory approval on February 25, 2022, and officially closed the merger three days later on February 28. We immediately went to work optimizing the capital structure, issuing $5.5 billion in new debt, most of which was used to refinance existing debt at lower rates. We completed that refinancing in April 2022. In order to secure regulatory approval for the merger, we were required to divest a number of businesses. The table on this slide lays out the details of those divestitures. As we have shared with you before, the aggregate revenue from all of the businesses being divested is approximately $425 million, and the margins for each of these businesses are higher than the margins for each of the divisions they were in. We're confident that we negotiated well on behalf of our shareholders in these transactions, evidenced by the approximately 9.5 times revenue multiple paid by the acquirers of these businesses in aggregate. Net after-tax proceeds will total $2.85 billion. Now, to recap the financial results for the first quarter. Revenue increased 2% to $3.1 billion. Our adjusted operating profit decreased 6% to $1.4 billion. Our adjusted pro forma operating profit margin decreased approximately 340 basis points to 45% as both profits and margin were negatively impacted by the decrease in Ratings transaction revenue and the expense growth I mentioned earlier. As you know, we measure and track adjusted segment operating profit margin on a trailing 12-month basis, which decreased 60 basis points to 47%. In addition to our strong overall revenue performance and continued expense management, we launched a $7 billion ASR and began optimizing our capital structure. Combined with tax effects of merger-related synergies and prudent investment, we increased adjusted pro forma diluted EPS year over year. Looking across the six divisions, I'm encouraged by the fact that even in a challenging macroeconomic environment, we were able to deliver strong revenue across five of our six divisions, including double-digit growth in commodity insights, mobility and indices. In line with the expectations we laid out on our call in March, we did see a year-over-year decrease in Ratings, driven by an exceptionally soft issuance environment. During the first quarter, global bond issuance decreased 12%. This understates the impact to our business, however, as high-yield issuance declined far more dramatically. In the U.S., issuance in aggregate decreased 25% as investment-grade decreased 19%, high-yield decreased 75%, public finance decreased 15%, structured finance increased 9% due to large increases in mortgage-backed securities, offset by declines in structured credit. Bank loan ratings declined 35% year over year. European issuance decreased 14% as investment-grade decreased 11%, high-yield decreased 54% and structured finance increased 27% due to increases in RMBS and covered bonds, partially offset by declines in ABS, CMBS and structured credit. In Asia, issuance was flat. The next two slides look at the difference we saw in the quarter between investment-grade issuance and the issuance of high-yield and leveraged loans. This slide shows that investment-grade issuance is resilient relative to other categories, decreasing only 5% year over year. This slide depicts the combination of high-yield issuance and leveraged loan volume. This quarter, we saw a decrease of over 50% from the incredible levels in the year-ago period. High-yield was particularly impacted by the uncertainty in the market, with issuance decreasing 68% year over year. While difficult to pinpoint exact causes, issuance in the first quarter was impacted, both by the pull-forward we witnessed and discussed last year, as well as the intentional delay we're hearing from customers, as many issuers wait for clearer signs of stability before reentering the market. Now, turning to some of the factors that made this quarter successful for S&P Global. We saw significant increases in engagement and usage of our products and our content this quarter. The metrics on this slide are clear evidence that in periods of increased uncertainty, whether that's in the macroeconomic picture, market volatility or geopolitical tensions, our customers turn to us. They turn to us for the insights, data and tools that they need to make well-informed business and investment decisions. It's also important to remember that S&P Global's stronger, more diverse product portfolio allows areas of the business to thrive in times of elevated volatility and uncertainty. Within the S&P Dow Jones indices business, we saw more than 20% growth in revenue from our exchange-traded derivatives, whose volumes are directly correlated with market volatility. In the commodities markets, our global trading services business within commodity insights grew 17% year over year. During the first quarter, we held a number of premier conferences, attracting thousands of leaders from multiple industries. Several of these conferences returned to being in-person events for the first time in three years. One of these was CERAWeek. For some S&P global investors, CERAWeek may be unfamiliar. CERAWeek is the world's leading event for the energy industry, taking place in the first quarter each year and hosted in Houston, Texas. We were thrilled to welcome attendees back in person, and it was clear that all of the factors impacting the energy industry right now, industry and government leaders wanted to be there. We had record attendance with over 5,200 delegates, 900 speakers and 50 senior government officials. With the combined resources of S&P Global Platts and IHS Markit, we're confident that CERAWeek will continue to grow and set itself apart as the must-attend event for energy industry leaders. We also hosted the Annual World Petrochemical Conference and the TPM conference in the first quarter. Both conferences aim to help industry leaders navigate some of the most pressing challenges facing our global economy. WPC convened this year to discuss how the chemical industry can help facilitate and thrive in a world progressing toward more sustainable operations, including net-zero emissions targets. Our conferences bring people together to drive innovation and growth in different industries, but they also demonstrate the strength of S&P Global as a source and a destination for global leadership. We're thrilled with the progress we've made as we celebrate the first anniversary of Sustainable1. ESG revenue growth accelerated on both a reported and organic basis in the first quarter, growing 57% year over year to reach nearly $50 million. We continue to introduce new ESG-related products and product enhancements at a rapid pace. In the first quarter, we saw the launch of 17 ESG ETFs based on our indices. And we ended the first quarter with AUM in ESG ETFs growing 28% to surpass $33 billion. Our indices and commodity insights teams collaborated to launch the S&P GSCI Electric Vehicle Metals Index, and we continue to enhance ESG scores made available through our Capital IQ Pro platform. One of the greatest advantages we have in ESG is the robust set of data that comes to us through the active participation of covered companies. Our 2021 corporate sustainability assessment saw a 64% increase in the number of companies working with us directly to ensure the data sets behind our ESG scores are robust, accurate and comprehensive. Our coverage of more than 11,000 companies includes approximately 2,300 which provide data sets and disclosure directly to CSA. Our commitment to active partnership with covered companies ensures our ESG scores are informed by the best data available. Now, turning to our outlook. We have updated our bond issuance forecast for the year to reflect the decrease seen in the first quarter, as well as to better reflect the ongoing impact of macroeconomic uncertainty and the ongoing conflict in Ukraine. We now expect Global issuance to decline approximately 5% year over year within a range of down 14% to flat in 2022. We expect corporates to see a 12% decrease in issuance, partially offset by a 2% increase in financial services issuance. We expect U.S. public finance and structured finance to each soften by 7% and international public finance to shrink by about 1.5%. As we evaluate the remainder of the year, we wanted to discuss some of the assumptions that underpin our guidance. Let me start with our response to the tragic events taking place in Ukraine and the impact on our business. As we've shared with you previously, combined revenue from Russia and Belarus is less than 1% of our total revenue. We have suspended commercial operations in Russia and Belarus, including all customer contracts. We've suspended ratings of Russian entities and removed stocks and bonds listed or domiciled in Russia from our indices. While the direct financial impact on our business is not material, we acknowledge the indirect impact on the issuance environment and market volatility. We also wanted to illustrate some of the changes in the macroeconomic environment that inform our financial outlook for the company. In addition to lower debt issuance, we now expect slightly lower global GDP growth. Inflation is also likely to have a greater impact on our business and economy as a whole relative to our expectations earlier this year. We're seeing some upward pressure on compensation expense that we expect to continue throughout the rest of the year. Commodities prices remain elevated relative to our early expectations as well. To be clear, this is not meant to be a comprehensive list of all metrics that inform our outlook, but we wanted to help investors understand the changes in some of the assumptions we make about the global economy when formulating guidance. Before handing it over to Ewout, I'd like to reiterate how pleased we are with the execution and success we've seen in a challenging quarter. Our ability to drive positive growth in both revenue and adjusted pro forma earnings per share in a quarter like this would have been much more challenging before our merger with IHS Markit. The strength, stability and scale of our businesses gives us great confidence to invest for future growth and be optimistic about the years ahead. We remain committed to our strategic organic investments, as illustrated on this slide, and we remain confident these investments will power significant future growth and profitability for the company. With that, I'll turn it over to Ewout to walk through our results and guidance. Ewout?Ewout Steenbergen -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Doug. I want to start by emphasizing the successful execution we saw this quarter. With five of our six divisions posting pro forma revenue growth, it's already clear that we are more resilient, both operationally and financially as a combined company. With our larger scale and more diversified revenue streams, we're more insulated to volatility in the debt issuance market. As such, we were able to grow pro forma revenue and adjusted EPS year over year even during a period of sharp decreases in issuance. Doug highlighted the headline financial results. I will take a moment to cover a few other items. But as a reminder, when we discuss financial results from operations and cash flows, we're discussing those results on an adjusted pro forma basis as if S&P Global and IHS Markit were combined for the entirety of all periods presented, unless explicitly called out as GAAP. Adjusted results also exclude the contribution from divested businesses in all periods. We have also made minor refinements to the recast pro forma financials for all four quarters of 2021, which can be found in the amended 8-K filed today. Adjusted corporate unallocated expenses declined from a year ago, caused by a combination of reduced incentive and fringe costs, as well as the release of certain benefits accruals. Our net interest expense increased 5% as we increased gross debt, partially offset by lower average rates due to refinancings. The decrease in adjusted effective tax rate was primarily due to tax deductions related to stock-based compensation and merger-related optimization of capital and liquidity structure. As we introduced last year, we'll continue to disclose these three categories of non-GAAP adjustments to provide insights into the type of expenses that we are incurring related to the merger and the synergies we have discussed. Transaction costs in the quarter were $281 million. These are costs related to completing the merger. They include legal fees, investment banking fees and filing fees. Integration costs in the quarter were $58 million. These are costs to operationalize the integration. They include consulting, infrastructure and retention cost. Cost to achieve synergies amounted to $88 million in the quarter. These are costs needed to enable expense and revenue synergies. They include lease terminations, severance, contract exit fees and investments related to product development, marketing and distribution enhancements. During the first quarter, the non-GAAP operating adjustments collectively totaled to $504 million, including a $1.3 billion gain on the sale of businesses and a $200 million contribution to the S&P Global Foundation, in addition to the merger-related items I mentioned. Given the growth in expenses this quarter, we wanted to provide some insight into the drivers, many of which are transitional. Importantly, we expect expense growth to moderate as we progress through the year, even excluding the impact of cost synergies. In the first quarter, we recognized $8 million in additional T&E expenses as we saw a limited resumption of travel relative to the last two years. We also saw a $10 million increase in advertising expense associated with our mobility division. Investments in growth initiatives contributed $28 million of the increase. We're specifically disclosing the increase from what we are calling a step-up impact in the quarter. This relates to increases in expenses that we view as a reestablishment of baseline cost. The return of in-person events included several major conferences in the first quarter, as Doug mentioned. Together, these live events added more than $20 million of incremental expense relative to last year when these events were still virtual. Step-up costs also incorporate a comprehensive process to align compensation practices across our employee base. One of these changes is to harmonize the timing of annual merit increases to March from April. The pull-forward of the merit increase caused one month of impact in the first quarter that did not occur in the year-ago period. We also recognized $15 million in additional expense related to the ongoing cloud transition. Free cash flow, excluding certain items, was $701 million in the first three months of 2022. Note that this is meant to reflect the estimated free cash flow of the combined company as if the merger were closed on January 1, 2022. We will provide some additional color on the drivers of our cash balance and our gross debt in the next few slides. Now, turning to the balance sheet. Our balance sheet continues to be very strong, with ample liquidity. As of the end of the first quarter, we had cash and cash equivalents of $4.4 billion and debt of $11.4 billion. Our adjusted gross debt to adjusted EBITDA at the end of the first quarter was 2.57 times. As you can see, our cash balance declined sequentially to $4.4 billion. The single largest driver in the reduction was the $7 billion in cash paid to fund the first tranche of our 2022 $12 billion accelerated share repurchase program. We also received net proceeds from divestitures of $2.6 billion and net proceeds of $2.3 billion from the issuance of debt. Now, to gross debt. We issued $5.5 billion of new debt in the first quarter, $3.5 billion of which has been allocated to refinancing existing debt. After the quarter closed, we also made a final debt redemption payment of $600 million, which brought our adjusted gross debt leverage down to 2.47 times. Now, I'd like to provide an update on our synergy progress. In the first quarter, we have achieved $23 million in cost synergies, and our current annualized run rate is $135 million. While we are already seeing significant progress in pipeline and customer conversations with only one month as a combined company, revenue synergies are negligible. The cumulative integration and cost to achieve synergies through the end of the first quarter is $365 million. Now, let's turn to the division results and begin with Market Intelligence. Market Intelligence delivered revenue growth of 7%, with growth across all product lines. Expenses increased 8%, primarily due to factors I mentioned earlier: investments in technology, especially cloud transition costs, and continued investment in strategic initiatives like ESG. Segment operating profit increased 5%, and the segment operating profit margin decreased 60 basis points to 29%. On a trailing 12-month basis, adjusted segment operating profit margin decreased 60 basis points to 30%. You can see on the slide our operating profit from the OSTTRA joint venture that complements the operations of our Market Intelligence division. The JV contributed $26 million in adjusted operating profit to the company. Because the JV is a 50%-owned joint venture operating independent of the company, we do not include the financial results of OSTTRA in the Market Intelligence division. Looking across Market Intelligence, there was solid growth in each category. And on a pro forma basis, desktop revenue grew 7%, data and advisory solutions revenue grew 12%, enterprise solutions revenue grew 2% and credit and risk solutions revenue grew 8%. As Doug discussed at length, Ratings faced a challenging issuance environment in the first quarter, with revenue declining 15% year over year. Expenses increased 7%, primarily due to compensation expense and information service costs, partially offset by lower occupancy costs. This resulted in a 25% decrease in segment operating profit and 820 basis points decrease in segment operating profit margin. On a trailing 12-month basis, adjusted segment operating profit margin decreased approximately 105 basis points to 62%. Non-transaction revenue increased 7%, primarily due to growth in fees associated with Surveillance and growth in CRISIL revenue. Transaction revenue decreased 31% on the soft issuance already discussed. This slide depicts Ratings revenue by its end markets. The largest contributors to the decrease in Ratings revenue were a 21% decrease in corporates and a 12% decrease in structured finance, driven predominantly by structured credit. In addition, financial services decreased 9%, governments decreased 11% and the CRISIL and other category increased 12%. And now turning to commodity insights. Revenue increased 14%. The return of in-person conferences, most notably CERAWeek and World Petrochemical Conference, drove 70% year-over-year growth in advisory and transactional services revenue. Excluding the impact of CERAWeek, revenue growth would have been 8% year over year. Global trading services had a great quarter, increasing 17%, mainly due to strong fuel oil and iron ore volumes. As Doug noted earlier, GTS revenue often picks up when commodity prices become more volatile, which we certainly witnessed in the first quarter. Expenses increased 18%, primarily due to cost associated with the return of in-person conferences and headcount and compensation expense. Excluding the impact of CERAWeek, expenses would have increased 10% year over year. Segment operating profit increased 8%, and the segment operating profit margin decreased 210 basis points to 43%. The trailing 12-month adjusted segment operating profit margin decreased approximately 200 basis points to 43%. In addition to the exceptional quarter in advisory and transactional services, we saw strong demand driving growth in price assessments and energy and resources data  and Insights. Growth was partially offset by a modest decrease in upstream data and insights, though we note positive signs of inflection in the upstream business. But for the suspension of commercial operations in Russia, upstream would have had its second consecutive quarter of positive ACV growth, which is a leading indicator for revenue. We also saw a dramatic improvement in retention in the Upstream business as retention rates improved by more than 10 full percentage points over the last 12 months. In our mobility division, revenue increased 10% year over year, driven primarily by strength in planning solutions and used car offerings. Expenses grew 11% on increased advertising expense in the quarter and headcount growth in 2021 as the business restores capacity to better align with strong growth over the past 18 months. This resulted in an 8% growth in adjusted operating profit and 80 basis points of margin contraction year over year. On a trailing 12-month basis, the adjusted segment operating profit margin increased approximately 400 basis points to 39%. Dealer revenue increased to 12% year over year, benefiting from successful prior-year-period promotions and from retention rates that remain above pre-COVID levels. Growth in manufacturing was 3% year over year related to the well-publicized supply chain challenges faced by automotive OEMs. Financials and Other increased 12%, driven primarily by strength in our insurance underwriting products. S&P Dow Jones indices delivered strong revenue growth of 14% year over year, primarily due to gains in AUM linked to our indices. During the quarter, expenses increased 9%, largely due to strategic investments, increased compensation and IT costs. Segment operating profit increased 16%, and the segment operating profit margin increased 130 basis points to 69.3%. On a trailing 12-month basis, the adjusted segment operating profit margin increased approximately 10 basis points to 68%. Every category increased revenue this quarter. Asset-linked fees increased 15%, primarily from AUM-driven gains in ETFs, mutual funds and insurance. Exchange-traded Derivative revenue increased 22% on increased trading volumes. Data and custom subscriptions increased 4%. Over the past year, ETF net inflows were $286 billion, and market appreciation totaled $244 billion. This resulted in quarter-ending ETF AUM of $2.9 trillion, which is 22% higher compared to one year ago. Our ETF revenue is based on average AUM, which increased 24% year over year. Sequentially, versus the end of the fourth quarter, ETF net inflows associated with our indices totaled $68 billion, and market depreciation totaled $123 billion. Within our engineering solutions division, we saw 7% revenue growth, driven primarily by growth in non-subscription offerings, most notably the Boiler Pressure Vessel Code, or BPVC, which was last released in August of 2021. Investment in growth initiatives and an increase in royalty expense led to a 5% increase in adjusted expenses. This resulted in segment operating profit growth of 17% and 160 basis points of year-over-year margin expansion. On a trailing 12-month basis, the adjusted segment operating profit margin contracted approximately 115 basis points to 20%. Subscription revenue in engineering solutions increased 3% year over year, while non-subscription revenue increased 60% over the same period. Now, moving to our guidance. This slide depicts our new GAAP guidance, and this slide depicts our updated 2022 adjusted pro forma guidance. For revenue, we now expect a low single-digit increase year over year, reflecting the issuance environment, partially offset by the strength we are seeing in our non-Ratings businesses. We now expect corporate unallocated expense between $85 million and $95 million, approximately $30 million lower than our previous guidance on lower forecast incentive compensation and professional fees. Interest expense is expected in the range of $360 million to $370 million, down $10 million from prior guidance. This is due to a slightly lower average cost of debt than we initially expected. We expect capital expenditures of approximately $165 million and free cash flow, excluding certain items, in the range of $4.8 billion to $4.9 billion. There is no change to our expectations for deal-related amortization, operating profit margin expansion or tax rate. This slide illustrates our guidance by division. For Ratings, we now expect revenue to decline low to mid-single digits and for margins to be in the low to mid-60s. This compares to previous guidance calling for low single-digit revenue growth and margins in the mid-60s. Our outlook for other segments is unchanged from previous guidance. Overall, we are incredibly encouraged by the team's ability to execute so well even in the current macro environment. We're focused on the enormous long-term opportunity ahead of us as a combined company, and we are more confident than ever in our ability to execute against that opportunity. Our differentiated data, insights, analytics and services help our customers to thrive and accelerate progress. And with that, let me turn the call back over to Mark for your questions.Mark Grant -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Ewout. [Operator instructions] Operator, we'll now take our first question. 