
OperatorGood morning and welcome to United Airlines Holdings Earnings Conference Call for the Second Quarter 2021. My name is Brandon and I'll be your conference facilitator today. Following the initial remarks from management, we will open the lines for question. [Operator Instructions]This call is being recorded and is copyrighted. Please note that no portion of the call may be recorded, transcribed or rebroadcast without the Company's permission. Your participation implies your consent to our recording of this call. If you do not agree with these terms, simply drop off the line.I will now turn the presentation over to your host for today's call, Kristina Munoz, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

 



Kristina Munoz -- Director, Investor RelationsThanks, Brandon. Good morning everyone and welcome to United's second quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Yesterday, we issued our earnings release which is available on our website at ir.united.com. Information in yesterday's release and the remarks made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, which represent the Company's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events and financial performance. All forward-looking statements are based upon information currently available to the Company. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectation. Please refer to our earnings release, Form 10-K and 10-Q and other reports filed with the SEC by United Airlines Holdings and United Airlines for a more thorough description of these factors.Also during the course of our call, we will discuss several non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, please refer to the tables at the end of our earnings release.Joining us on the call today to discuss our results and outlook are Chief Executive Officer, Scott Kirby; President, Brett Hart; Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Andrew Nocella; and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Gerry Laderman. In addition, we have other members of the executive team on the line available to assist with the Q&A.

 



And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Scott.Scott Kirby -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Kristina. Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today. It was great to see many of you in person at our United Next event last month in New York. And personally, it's been great to be back out on the road during the quarter, talking to employees and customers and hearing anecdote after anecdote about how great it is to be back traveling. Thank you also to all the people of United Airlines for all that they did to take care of our customers and each other through the crisis and for all that they're doing now to really and truly change the customer experience at United Airlines.Before I really begin, I thought I'd take a moment to address the most talked-about issue among airline investors recently, the delta variant. As you'll hear from our bullishness today, we haven't seen any impact at all on bookings, which continue to just get stronger and stronger every week, but of course that is backwards-looking data. Since early 2020, however, no airline has been more willing to candidly acknowledge the risk and challenges posed by COVID-19, and importantly, no airline has been quicker to aggressively confront them than United. We've worked hard to protect that operational flexibility. In fact, it's part of why we haven't had the same mass group cancellation challenges that our competitors have faced as we ramped our schedule over the last couple of months.

 



That all said, we think the most likely outcome is that the continued recovery in demand continues largely unabated. That's the most likely and logical outcome because the evidence is overwhelming that someone who is vaccinated is highly protected against severe disease, hospitalization and death. The un-vaccinated still face an elevated risk of serious illness and death from COVID-19. In fact, recent reporting says that over 97% of hospitalizations are for un-vaccinated people which implies that you're about 50 times more likely to wind up in the hospital for COVID if you're un-vaccinated. But the un-vaccinated are also a smaller and shrinking percentage of the general population and an even smaller minority among the most vulnerable groups. And for United Airlines specifically, our customer surveys at the end of June also revealed that 84% of our MileagePlus members were already fully vaccinated. And so while we expect case count [Phonetic] to rise, given the vaccination rates they will still remain well below the peak and hospitalizations and deaths will not rise nearly as much. That leads to the logical outcome that the reopening continues on track. I'd acknowledge that shutting down or continuing the reopening also has a political dimension to it and that's a lot harder to predict. And so it's possible we will have a temporary pullback in the reopening. But given the data science around vaccines, that seems like a lower probability outcome and, regardless, it will be temporary, even if it does happen.Turning now back to our results. Gerry and Andrew will provide a lot more detail. But if I was going to briefly summarize where things stand right now, I'd say the demand is recovering even faster than we had hoped domestically, both leisure and business demand. And internationally we see the exact same pattern every time new borders are reopened. And while the US isn't yet opened to Europeans the data and science, including the demonstrated safety of air travel, similar vaccination and case rate and similar level of variance in Europe and the US support an opening and we expect it to happen at some point. And when the borders do open, we expect to see the same robust hockey stick increase in demand that we've already seen domestically.On the cost front, we remain on target for the near and long term. And as Gerry will detail, assuming the grounded 777s are back flying, we expect our 2022 CASM-ex will be lower than 2019, which means we're right on track to deliver CASM-ex that's 4% lower in 2023 and 8% lower in 2026 as we shared at our United Next event last month.Today with the robust demand trends that we see and our return to profitability, we don't just see the light at the end of the tunnel. We're exiting the tunnel. We're focused on upgauging our hub, significantly improving the product and decommoditizing air travel by transforming our customers' onboard experience. This opportunity is unique to United. It is why we're so confident in our 2023 and 2026 financial targets.As we exit the tunnel, there is still a steep hill to climb to get back to and then exceed our pre-COVID margins. But we also have some important upcoming tailwinds that will benefit United more than others. First, our coastal hubs and our decision which stands alone among network -- large network carriers, not to retire widebody aircraft means that we are ready to capture the pent-up demand for long-haul international travel. Second, our opportunity to upgauge our fleet while also driving increased connectivity as part of United Next means we can accelerate the margin improvements we saw from investments in the mid-con hubs in 2018 and '19.And of course our confidence in United's future is also fueled by the incredible performance of the United team. Even in the midst of a global pandemic, our NPS scores rocketed up 30 points year-over-year. And our 50 point year-over-year improvement in the J.D. Power survey was the largest of any US airlines. This customer-centric service culture and an influx of nearly 500 new aircraft along with an unprecedented retrofit of our existing narrowbody will transform our customers' experience. It will also usher [Phonetic] an incredible new post-pandemic era for United's customers, employees and shareholders, creating a new era driven by innovation that makes the travel experience better. And I'm really proud of the work the team did in the second quarter to innovate with customers and our employees.And with that, I'll turn it to Brett.Brett J. Hart -- PresidentThanks, Scott. I want to start by congratulating the entire United family on our expected return to profitability in the second half of this year. The United team has worked toward this milestone of achieving positive adjusted pre-tax income for over a year and could not be more proud. During the second quarter, United continued our work to make the travel experience safer and more convenient for our customers. We recently made new enhancements to our already industry-leading app to allow customers to schedule COVID-19 tests and have results directly verified through the Travel-Ready Center platform within the United app.In May, we announced a first of its kind collaboration to use Abbott's COVID-19 Home Test and app to enable our customers to self-administer a rapid antigen test and use the verified negative test result to board an international flight to the United States. As borders continue to open, we are working to make the return to international travel as convenient as possible for our customers. These initiatives make us uniquely ready to facilitate international travel and further position us as the leading international airline in the US.In addition, we recently launched our "Your Shot to Fly" sweepstakes working effectively with the federal government to creatively encourage people to get vaccinated and ultimately get back on planes again. We feel optimistic from the recent progress among European countries allowing US tourists to enter the various -- to enter with various vaccine and testing requirements. Countries such as Iceland, Croatia, Greece, Italy, France and Spain have all began accepting US travelers for the summer tourist season and we look forward to more destination options for our customers in the coming months. We continue to encourage the Biden administration to open up international travel and appreciate the bipartisan as well as industry support to ease international travel restrictions. And Andrew will detail further. The demand surges we've seen to countries once restrictions are loosened gives us even greater confidence regarding the long-term outlook for international travel.On the domestic side, all states have reopened local economies and removed travel restrictions enabling the surge in domestic leisure travel we're currently seeing. We remain focused on United's transformation to be the airline customers choose to fly. We have already eliminated change fees and with our new aircraft order we will improve the customer experience. We're adding seatback entertainment to all of our aircraft, improving Wi-Fi and innovating with customer-friendly technology like [Indecipherable], like ConnectionSaver which saved over 140,000 connections in the second quarter.News from Washington, D.C., continues to be a focal point for United. We are encouraged by the bipartisan efforts to make needed investments in our nation's infrastructure. Infrastructure is the backbone of our economy and it must be robust, sustainable and resilient to meet the needs of today and tomorrow. We support modernizing our nation's air traffic control system and advancing sustainable aviation fuel as important aviation infrastructure investment that also reduce industry emissions.Moving on to other highlights within our global network. At United, we continue to be a proud partner for our communities. Throughout the quarter we expanded efforts to support those impacted by COVID-19 crisis in India. United remain the only US carrier to serve India, a distinction we hold to date, and help transport more than 300,000 pounds of critical medical supplies to the region. We additionally launched a fundraising effort to enable our customers to donate to relief partners.In the quarter, we announced new initiatives with multiple partners to advance our sustainable goals across the United States. These partnerships cover a range of sustainable initiatives, including decarbonization, sustainable aviation fuel and sustainable agriculture. During the quarter, we also announced a new order with Boom Supersonic for the Overture, the first large commercial aircraft optimized to run on 100% sustainable aviation fuel. We also announced our latest investment under United Airlines Ventures and Heart Aerospace, an electric aircraft start-up developing an aircraft that has the potential to fly customers up to 250 miles before the end of this decade. United continues to lead the industry with a multipronged approach to our commitment to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by 100% by 2050 without relying on traditional offsets and we look forward to more to come on this front.And with that, I will turn it over to Andrew.Andrew Nocella -- Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial OfficerThanks, Brett. I'm going to start off today by thanking the best commercial team in the business. Our combined efforts and agility over the last 18 months led us to this moment today announcing the generally positive TRASM, PRASM and yield outlook for the second half of 2021, something hard to imagine just 12 months ago. The revenue outlook is allowing for a much improved and profitable financial results on adjusted pre-tax basis for the second half of the year and Gerry will talk about that in just a bit.Our realistic view of the pandemic's impact on our business and industry was sometimes questioned. However, a realistic assessment from day one, combined with capacity corresponding to real demand, not what we hoped demand would be, were the keys and prepared us for what comes next. We'll let facts guide us the entire way and I'm pleased to report today the facts point to a strong recovery of our business across all segments. As Scott said, we're coming out of the tunnel. We now have a clearer path, not only to profitability in the near term, but a path to higher long-term margins even in an environment with elevated industry domestic capacity.During the crisis we are pleased with our TRASM performance and in the second quarter our TRASM was down 11% versus 2019. Our performance in Q2 is well ahead of our original guidance but largely consistent with our updated mid-quarter expectations. International long-haul demand, business demand and yields just improved faster than expected three months ago. We still face significant headwinds for the second half with borders being closed and business traffic not fully back, but ultimately we expect these headwinds will transition to tail.Our ability to adjust our global network to transport record amounts of cargo is one of our proudest accomplishments and a clear differentiator versus others. In fact, during the quarter, United generated $606 million in cargo revenues, our highest cargo revenue quarter ever, up 105% from 2Q 2019. With long haul passenger demand now increasing, we will cease most of these cargo-only flights for the remainder of 2021, although we continue to project [Phonetic] strong cargo yields for the remainder of this year. During the crisis, we also carefully planned and collaborated across divisions to execute a bounce-back plan for the second half of 2021. Our summer capacity plan continued a measured phase-in of that capacity. For Q3 we expect system capacity to down 26% versus Q3 of 2019, up about 39% versus capacity flown in Q2. We expect domestic capacity to be down about 20% versus Q3 2019 and up 43% versus Q2.Business travel, which was down over 90% versus 2019 for most of Q2 has inflected sharply in June. It's currently down about 60% versus pre-pandemic levels. We expect two more inflection points in business demand. First, at the end of the summer and second, the new budget cycle beginning in January. We expect business demand to improve by the end of the third quarter to be down about 40% to 45% versus 2019.Our recent survey of business customers now indicate over 90% plan to return to travel, including international travel in the second half of '21. That is up from around 55% earlier this year. On our last conference call, we talked about the fact that domestic yields for United will be positive this summer and that we still expect it to be the -- that we still expect that to be the case. Overall domestic yields are still likely to be slightly negative in the quarter due to business traffic slower recovery. To give you some color on yield, Q3 right now booked domestic yields today are running ahead of 2019. That higher yield is also matched with higher booked load factors relative to 2019. We really have set ourselves up from an RM perspective very well.International demand is also recovering, but as we anticipated at a slower rate. For Q3 we expect international capacity to be down 36% versus 2019 relative to down 53% in Q2. The demand bounce back does differ considerably by cabin and by region and even within the region depending on travel restrictions. While business demand is down, we've used special incentives to get our MileagePlus members back onboard with better access to Polaris seats via awards and upgrades.Asia was the first region to be impacted by COVID and continues to be the slowest to recover. There is the largest number of border restrictions. It will likely be 2023 at least until we see a normal schedule to Asia. In the meantime, our global network already includes new service to India and Africa to compensate for reduced Asian flying.Our European schedule this summer is quickly ramping back up. However, with continued restrictions on Europeans from entering the US and on US travelers from entering key countries in Europe, including the UK, we anticipate that it will be the spring of 2022 prior to resuming a normal schedule. We expect our summer Atlantic load factors to be around 70% in 2021, 16 points lower than 2019. I have to add that we think the summer of 2022 across the Atlantic has the potential to be our best season ever with pent-up demand and easing border restrictions.We continue to see structural changes in global long-haul flying that we believe will create tailwinds for United as borders continue to open. We expect to have 30 incremental widebody jets available to schedule in the summer of 2022 versus 2019, which is why our recent aircraft order we're focused on narrow-body aircraft only.We continue to operate our 767 fleet which we used just a few weeks ago to begin service to Croatia, the optimal plane for this type of mission. Overall, we expect that our TRASM for Q3 will be positive. Premier members of the MileagePlus program are rapidly returning to flying on United, a great sign for 2022 business demand. Year-to-date, three quarters of our top Premier members have already flown with us or have booked a flight. Of the Premier members that have not planned to fly yet, our research shows that they tend to be fliers focused largely on global long-haul markets that simply haven't opened up yet. Many of our Premier members are also maintaining an active spend on one of our credit cards, increasing the level of program engagement in 2021 among our top members to more than 90%. Our Chase co-brand card programs are thriving. Our June 2021 new accounts domestic sales and account retention metrics all exceed June 2019 figures.I just want to also spend a few moments today talking about United Next. United Next is simply our acceleration of many of our pre-pandemic strategies. It's a plan to close the short gaps in our commercial strategies, customer focus and passenger amenities. Most importantly, our plan is for gates to increase by 30% by 2026. 50-seat RJs allowed United to grow schedule depth as we built our mid-con hubs. But it's now time to replace many of these jets with modern and more fuel-efficient 737s and A321s, lowering our unit costs and increasing profits, while at the same time increasing our product quality with amenities such as seatback entertainment at every seat and larger overhead bins. Most importantly, United Next is not about increasing seat density in planes, reducing comfort, lowering onboard amenities or reducing the number of first-class or Economy Plus extra legroom seats as others have done. In fact, our premium seat counts will increase by 75% in North America per departure by 2026 versus 2019. And, of course, that's aligned with the revenue potential of our United hubs. United Next will allow us to differentiate and decommoditize our network, segment our products and put customers first but also maintain fair competitiveness with low-cost competitors while offering a superior product.We're excited to come out the other side of this tunnel and plan for an amazing and bright future. I'd like to thank the entire United team for their efforts as well. Together, we've made an amazing difference.With that, I'll turn it over to Gerry and he'll talk about our financial results for Q2 and the outlook for Q3. Gerry?Gerald (Gerry) Laderman -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Andrew. Good morning, everyone. For the second quarter of 2021, we reported a pre-tax loss of $600 million and an adjusted pre-tax loss of $1.6 billion. Our adjusted EBITDA margin for the second quarter ended down 10.7% in line with our prior guidance with our adjusted EBITDA margin, a positive 9% for the month of June. Our adjusted operating expenses for the second quarter ended down 32% versus the second quarter of 2019, which was slightly worse than prior guidance of down 33%. The entire difference though is attributable to greater fuel consumption and higher fuel prices as compared to what we anticipated when we provided second quarter guidance. All of our other costs came in as we expected, giving us continuing confidence in our ability to achieve our near term and long-term cost targets. As previously noted, as the demand environment continues to improve we expect to generate positive adjusted pre-tax income in the month of July. In fact, as we have said we expect to generate positive adjusted pre-tax income for both the third quarter and fourth quarter this year. Despite business and long-haul international demand not being fully recovered, we are pleased that our return to profitability is expected to occur well before prior expectations and we anticipate another step function improvement once business and international demand fully return.Turning to our outlook on costs. We expect our third quarter CASM-ex to be up approximately 17% versus the same period in 2019 with capacity down 26% versus 2019. To put the CASM-ex number in perspective, while capacity may be down 26% we are not simply flying 26% less of the same network. Given our current international and domestic mix where we are currently flying more short-haul domestic flights and combined with the temporary grounding of our fleet of Pratt powered 777 widebody aircraft, this has created an incremental 6 point headwind to our CASM-ex because of lower stage length and lower gauge versus 2019. Our cost outlook additionally includes investments necessary for future flying such as training and maintenance costs. On the positive side, embedded in this outlook is also the early success from our $2 billion structural cost savings plan.We expect CASM-ex will better represent our true cost performance once our capacity reverts back to 2019 levels and when the network begins to be reshaped with our United Next plan and we achieve the full implementation of our cost initiatives. We are currently in our 2022 planning process and though we won't share details today, we feel confident that our 2022 CASM-ex will be lower than 2019. We expect that our 2022 outlook demonstrates substantial progress toward hitting our long-term CASM-ex targets of down 4% in 2023 and down 8% in 2026 versus 2019.In addition to the structural cost reductions, our United Next targets are enabled by our recent announced order for 270 new narrowbody aircraft, which when added to our existing order book provide them with 500 narrowbody aircraft on firm order. We expect 191 of these aircraft to be delivered through the end of 2023. And for those of you in the aircraft financing community, this includes 13 737 MAX 8s through the remainder of this year, 20 MAX 8s and 20 MAX 9s in 2022 and 56 MAX 8s, 15 MAX 9s, 50 MAX 10s and 16 A321neos in 2023.Regarding capital expenditures this year. We currently expect adjusted capex for the full year to run about $4.5 billion. This assumes we take delivery of all eight 787-10 aircraft scheduled for later this year. With Boeing's recent announcement regarding delays in delivering 787, it is possible that some of these aircraft and the related capex may slip into next year.In closing, our expectation for adjusted pre-tax profitability in both the third and fourth quarters represent a milestone that the entire United family has worked toward since the beginning of the pandemic. Gone are the days of talking about empty aircraft, cash burn and job losses. We have now shifted our focus fully toward the long-term path for United Airlines and United Next plan. We believe our achievement throughout the crisis fully prepared us to execute on our plan to both maximize earning power and be the airline that customers choose to fly.And with that, I'll hand it over to Kristina to start the Q&A.Kristina Munoz -- Director, Investor RelationsOkay. Thank you, Gerry. We will now take analyst questions. Please limit yourself to one question and if needed one follow-up question. Brandon, please describe the procedure to ask a question.