
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Pinduoduo Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jason Shu. Please go ahead.Jason Shu -- Investor Relations

 



All right. Thank you, operator. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Pinduoduo earnings release was distributed earlier and is available on the IR website at investor.pinduoduo.com, as well as through GlobeNewswire services. On today's call, our Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, Chen Lei, will make some general remarks on our performance for the past quarter and our strategic focus going forward. Our VP of Finance, Tony Ma, will then elaborate further on specific strategic initiatives and take us through our financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2021.Before we begin, I would like to refer you to our Safe Harbor statements in the earnings press release, which applies to this call as we will make certain forward-looking statements.Also, this call includes discussions of certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to our earnings release, which contains a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures.So, now, it is my pleasure to introduce our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chen Lei. Lei, please go ahead.

 



Lei Chen -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jason. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining our results announcement for the second quarter of 2021. Thanks to our users' trust, our total revenue for this quarter, excluding revenue from merchandise sales, was RMB21.1 billion. This represents a year-on-year increase of 73%. Our annual active buyers reached 849.9 million for the 12 months ending on June 30. Over the quarter, average MAU increased to 738.5 million, representing 87% of our annual active buyers. Our result this quarter demonstrate our enduring commitment to serve our users, as well as their trust in us.We feel fortunate and are grateful for their consistent support and we will continue to do our best to serve them and all our stakeholders. Pinduoduo takes our responsibility to our users and society very seriously. Without them and their support, we will not be where we are today. This is why we are always there with them and for them in their times of need. After heavy rain struck Henan Province probably last month, we immediately mobilized our networks, our partners to provide relief. Close to 20,000 Duo Duo Grocery pick-up points at Zhengzhou City helped to distribute emergency supplies to residents living in their vicinity. With Henan's agricultural supplies disrupted by COVID-19 and the rain, we linked up Henan's Duo Duo Grocery network with neighboring networks, including Shandong and Anhui to ensure that residents continue to have the supplies they needed at stable prices. As user demand in Henan rose significantly, we also increased our warehousing by 4 times and doubled our manpower there. In addition to these efforts, we contributed RMB100 million toward the rescue and relief efforts. Our support for Henan is in the same spirit as our earlier initiatives to leverage our platform to contribute to society.When COVID-19 disrupted traditional agricultural supply chain last year, we launched our Help the Farmer initiative, connecting farmers directly with consumers across the country. Through our various efforts, we helped over 1.13 million farmers sell over 2.06 million tons of agricultural produce by the end of 2020. This helped farmers reduce spoilage and losses and the consumers get what they needed. As consumers turn to online grocery shopping to minimize contact, existing delivery system became overwhelmed, resulting in significant backlog. We responded by launching Duo Duo Grocery, a next-day self pick-up service that connects local demand and supply. Duo Duo Grocery unclogged the backlog, providing users more affordable and fresher produce in an efficient manner. It has since become an important offering to our users, helping to create and preserve millions of jobs around entire agri-food value chain in the process. It has also proven its worth as a support network in times of needs in Zhengzhou. We will continue to improve it to benefit users, farmers, and their communities.

 



Improving agriculture has been at the front and center of our business from the very beginning. Agriculture touches the daily lives of everyone and has a relatively low digitization rate. With many of our teams being engineer by training, we hope to apply technology to agriculture, so as to make a large positive impact on society and contribute to the national effort to modernize agriculture and vitalize rural communities. Applying technology to agriculture is the best way for us to achieve our mission, which is to benefit all, to put people first, and to be more open.We're gratified that Pinduoduo served over 16 million farmers acting as their portal to a digital economy. Farmers are the bedrock of agri-food system. To help them thrive is to help our agri-food system and the society at large to thrive. We have seen first-hand how online agriculture retail and technology have benefited farmers. We are pleased that farmers and our partners recognize it too, which is why we have spread the word and helped a number of farmers on our platform grow so quickly. We want to bring even more farmers onboard and work with them to improve their lives and livelihood. This is possible only if it also worked for our users and society at large. This is why we are focusing on playing a role in strengthening food security, safety, and technology.And now, let me elaborate. First, food security. It's important to secure consumer access to a wide variety of affordable and nutritious food. For this, we need to help our farmers sell better and earn more, so that they can cultivate more efficiently and sustainably. On the supply side, we need to upskill farmers as we have been doing through Duo Duo Academy and in partnership with local governments and agronomic institutes to apply new technology.On the demand side, we need to create awareness of their produce and aggregate demand to them. While China has a diverse selection of unique agriculture products, consumers often do not know about many of them. We want to change this by promoting their rich offerings nationwide. This is -- it is in this spirit that we recently launched our third harvest festival, leveraging our RMB10 billion program and the fresh sale. This year's addition featured over 1,000 unique quality produce from 400 quality agricultural production regions. Since inception of the RMB10 billion program, our zero commission policy for agricultural produce has attracted over 10,000 quality agri merchants to the program, selling over 20,000 agricultural SKUs. I want to take this opportunity to press that we will maintain our zero commission policy for agricultural products to help farmers build more resilient, efficient, and profitable business.Second, food safety. We want to help improve standard across agri-food system. Our supply chain itself will continue to help buildup the agri-focused infrastructure. We are investing to improve demand and supply matching, cultural integration, and smarter route planning. These efforts will also reduce agriculture's environmental footprint by cutting resource use and emissions from storage and transportation. We are still at the very beginning of this infrastructure buildup. However, we are confident of its long-term benefits.Third, food technology or agri-food technology. We can always create a vibrant and sustainable agri-food system by seeking solutions from the cutting edge of science and working with farmers to apply these solutions. I would like to highlight the work we are doing in precision farming. Earlier this month, we launched the second Smart Agriculture Competition together with China Agricultural University and Zhejiang University. We challenged teams from around the world to plant tomatoes. Last year, we challenged teams to deliver cost-effective productivity improvements with strawberries. The technology teams performed very well, demonstrating the cost adjusted benefits of adopting precision farming by producing three times more fruit than the experienced farmers. Two of these teams have since started to commercialize their technology, which will result in real productivity gains for farmers.After last year's successful run, we are stepping up our criteria. On top of cost-effective productivity improvements, teams will need to demonstrate their farming technology to improve a tomato's nutritional profile, while exerting less impact on the environment. We welcome all interesting teams with relevant skills to join this competition. First, agritech will make agriculture more attractive to the tech-savvy, Internet-native younger generation. We want to help them apply their tech skills in agriculture. To date, we have directly contributed to over 100,000 new farmers returning and working in their hometowns. We will continue to strengthen our training for new farmers and we are targeting to train another 100,000 of them over the next five years. While we have made headway in our agricultural improvement initiatives, there is still a lot to be done to support our farmers and apply technology to agriculture to making smarter, more resilient, more sustainable, and benefit all.At China's last [Phonetic] budget online agriculture platform, we launched a dedicated RMB10 billion agriculture initiative to date, which seeks to face and address the critical needs in the agricultural sectors and rural areas. Commercial values or profits are not a goal but rather we strive to facilitate advancement of agritech, promote digital inclusion, and provide agritech talents and workers with greater motivation and a sense of achievement.Although RMB10 billion agriculture initiatives will clearly impact the short-term earnings per share for shareholders, it has already received the support and approval of the Board of Directors, and it will be personally overseen by myself. We will then hold a shareholder meeting to seek the support of majority shareholders. This is an important and challenging task, which we will invest in patiently. All of profits from Q2 and any potential profits in the future quarters will first be allocated toward this initiative until the total RMB10 billion commitment is fulfilled.Thank you. And now, let me pass it onto Tony.Tony Ma -- Vice President of FinanceThank you, Lei. Hello, everyone. Let me begin by providing an update on our progress in improving agriculture by applying technology and elaborate on how we will continue to deploy resources to do so, so as to achieve our mission to benefit all, and I will then discuss our financials this quarter. First, our efforts on digital and technological inclusion on farmers and agri merchants. We are firm believers in online agriculture retail and have already connected over 16 million farmers. We are committed to do more for them and bring more farmers onboard and into the digital economy. Many farmers are small-holders and may not be digital natives. We will be directing resources to make it simple and worthwhile for them to embrace tech-enabled agriculture. Our platform helps farmers sell effectively online by making China's rich and the diverse agricultural produce discoverable and accessible to our 850 million MAU users, of course, demand will then aggregate.As a foundation, we are committed to keeping our RMB10 billion program completely free for all agricultural produce. Further to that, we will be focusing on promoting quality agricultural produce. We have seen encouraging results from our third harvest festival last week. This year, pre-sale orders nearly tripled within the same time frame, with our users learning about and trying more special products, including vegetables from Shouguang, mitten crabs from Hongze Lake, and matsutake mushroom from Shangri-La. We see great potential for Pinduoduo to be the go-to place to discover unique produce and learn and experience China's rich agricultural diversity. We will continue to invest heavily to make this a reality.We will apply C2M to help them cultivate better and build their brands. Our pioneering C2M model was recently recognized by the Retail Asia Awards for helping many export-oriented OEMs to pivot to the domestic market after COVID-19 disrupted the demand from abroad. Through C2M, they tailored their products to Chinese consumers and build strong brands to sell them. We will be applying C2M to agriculture, while working with farmers to understand their customers better and to tailor their produce and packaging accordingly, thereby increasing demand while reducing waste, environmental footprint, and advertising spend. This will also help users access more fresh produce that are better, fresher, and cheaper.An early example of our work in this area is tieguanyin tea producers in Anxi. Tieguanyin is a premium oolong tea originated from Anxi, Fujian. And tieguanyin from this area is considered to be the best quality tea within this category. Under the Anxi County Tea Industry New Brand Alliance, we partnered with 10 leading tieguanyin producers in Anxi and analyzed consumers' preference to provide optimization feedback, all size, packaging, and the price of their products. In addition, we helped them to establish a new brand image of quality tea is not expensive among consumers. This helped to increase sales significantly.Deepening the human capital pool in agriculture is also key to the long-term success of our efforts, and we seek to empower farmers and agri merchants to grow and sell better through Duo Duo Academy and promote new technologies in partnership with local governments and agronomics. We also help to nurture and showcase agritech solutions through our Global Smart Agriculture Competition, thereafter encouraging their wider adoption in China. After successful inaugural event in 2020, we launched the second edition earlier this month. We are very honored that China Agricultural University, Zhejiang University have joined us and provided their strong support. We have also put together a judging panel composed of distinguished experts and growers with background in horticulture, crop modeling, algorithm design, and policy-making, reflecting the importance of interdisciplinary collaboration to modernize agriculture to benefit all. We hope that this year's competition will spotlight ideas and techniques that can be applied by farmers to improve their farming.Second, retooling logistics for agriculture. We will be allocating resources to improve agri-focused logistics for affordability and efficiency, and to reduce its carbon footprint. We will make it well-adapted to online agriculture retail. We have made good strides in this area, incorporating our route planning technology to our network solutions. At present, our work has already helped to expand the range of delicate foods and vegetables that can be sold online at affordable prices, with it, our user enjoy more options because more farmers and agri merchants have joined the digital economy. At the same time, our distribution networks that support these sales have also created many new economic opportunities, catalyzing over a million jobs along the way. These improvements have also grained the agriculture supply chain by cutting down carbon emission through more efficient routing and matching of supply and demand, as well as reducing food spoilage and waste in the distribution process.While we are encouraged to see the benefits that our logistics solutions have brought to many stakeholders and the environment, there is still much to do and accomplish. Nevertheless, we are determined to play our part and are committed to make significant long-term investments in it alongside like-minded partners. It is our strategic priority to modernize the agri-food system to serve all stakeholders better and become more environmentally sustainable. We are committed to invest any profit and resources into realizing it. Our efforts are still in early days, and we will be patient for our investment to show results.Now, let me talk through the financial highlights of the second quarter of 2021. We continue to see healthy user growth in Q2, and are happy with the progress we are making in improving trust and winning mindshare with our users. Our annual active buyers for the last 12 months ending June 30, 2021, increased to 849.9 million, up 26.1 million from the prior quarter. Our MAU in Q2 reached 738.5 million. This is up 30% compared to the same quarter in 2020. Our MAU as a percentage of our annual active buyers was 87% in the quarter, reflecting continued healthy engagement with our users.In terms of P&L, our total revenues in the quarter ended June 30, 2021, were RMB23 billion, up 89% from RMB12.2 billion in the same quarter last year. Excluding revenues from our 1P trials, our total revenues grew by 73% to RMB21.1 billion in Q2 2021. The main driver of this growth was our online marketing service. Online marketing services revenue was RMB18.1 billion this quarter, up 64% compared to the same period last year, due primarily to continued increase in merchant activities. We have seen merchants spending more and exploring new ways to engage with users and our users browsing more and discovering more items of interest. We can attribute these at least in part to improvements in the advertising products and analytical tools we offer to our merchants, which have helped them to meet and exceed their ROI targets. We are pleased to see the growing endorsement by our merchants and our users.Our transaction service revenues this quarter amounted to RMB3 billion, which is up 164%, compared with the same period last year. The increase in our transaction service revenue was due to two primary factors: number one, the increase in our GMV in Q2; and number two, the service revenues that we recognized in connection with Duo Duo Grocery, for which we provide fulfillment and other related services.We also recorded RMB2 billion in merchandise sales for our 1P trials in Q2 2021 as compared to RMB5.1 billion in the preceding quarter. As we have stated from the outset, our 1P business is meant to temporarily meet user demand of specific products which our merchants are unable to fulfill, therefore, this number may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter. Our strategy on 1P remains unchanged and it will remain a very small part of our business.Now, moving on to costs and expenses. Our total cost of revenues increased from RMB2.7 billion in Q2 2020 to RMB7.9 billion this quarter. The increase was mainly due to the costs and expenses attributable to 1P merchandise sales, higher cost of payment processing fees, cloud service fees, and delivery and storage fees.Total operating expenses this quarter were RMB13.2 billion as compared to RMB11.2 billion in the same quarter of 2020. On a total non-GAAP basis, operating expenses were RMB12 billion as compared to RMB10.3 billion in the same quarter a year ago.Our non-GAAP sales and marketing expenses this quarter increased 13% to RMB10 billion from RMB8.9 billion in the same quarter of 2020. This was mainly due to an increase in promotion and coupon expenses as we continue to invest in user engagement and mindshare. June is traditionally a festival month for online retail. At Pinduoduo, we do not emphasize on shopping festivals, but wish to deliver value-for-money merchandise across odd category to our consumers every day. At the same time, we have detailed internal ROI guidelines on spending and are committed to make investments that meet such ROI guidelines. As a result, we see moderated growth in sales and marketing expenses in this quarter, consistent with historical Q2 spending.Looking forward, we are committed to make meaningful investment into categories that we think could help strengthen consumer mindshare and benefit all in long-term. On this front, we will continue to make it free for agriculture products and fresh produce to be featured in our RMB10 billion program.On a non-GAAP basis, our sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our revenue, excluding 1P trials this quarter, was 47% as compared to 81% and 73% for the same quarter in 2019 and in 2020. The reduction in sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue is a reflection of our economies of scale and the consistent efforts to stick to high standards of ROI guidelines. However, as we continue to invest into our user mindshare and in light of the upcoming festival season, we expect sales and marketing expenses to increase, hence, impact the bottom line.On a non-GAAP basis, our general and administrative expenses were RMB214 million, an increase of 57% from RMB137 million in the same quarter of 2020.Our non-GAAP research and development expenses were RMB1.8 billion, an increase of 39% from RMB1.3 billion in the same quarter of 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase in the headcount, the recruitment of more experienced R&D personnel, and an increase in R&D-related cloud service expenses.To sum up, operating profit for this quarter was RMB2 billion on a GAAP basis compared with operating loss of RMB1.6 billion in the same quarter of 2020. Non-GAAP operating profit was RMB3.2 billion, compared with operating loss of RMB725.1 million in the same quarter of 2020. Our non-GAAP operating profit as a percentage of our revenue improved from minus 6% in Q2 2020 to 14% in Q2 2021.Net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was RMB2.4 billion as compared to net loss of RMB899.3 million in the same quarter last year. Basic earnings per ADS was RMB1.93 and the diluted earning per ADS was RMB1.69, compared with basic and diluted net loss per ADS of RMB0.75 in the same quarter of 2020.Non-GAAP net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was RMB4.1 billion, compared with net loss of RMB77.2 million in the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per ADS was RMB2.85, compared with non-GAAP diluted net loss per ADS of RMB0.06 in the same quarter of 2020. That completes the profit and loss statement for the second quarter.Net cash flow provided by the operating activities was RMB7.4 billion, compared with RMB5.5 billion in the same quarter of 2020, primarily due to an increase in online marketing service revenues. As of June 30, 2021, the Company had RMB92.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments. As of the end of July 2021, $773.7 million of our 0% convertible bonds due in 2024 have been converted into equity.With that, I conclude my prepared remarks. Operator, we can take questions now.