  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the MSCI first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session where we will limit participants to one question and one follow-up. We will have further instructions for you at that time. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Jisoo Suh, executive director, investor relations. You may begin.Jisoo Suh -- Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Dylan. Good day, and welcome to the MSCI first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. Earlier this morning, we issued a press release announcing our results for the first quarter of 2022. This press release, along with an earnings presentation we will reference on this call, as well as a brief quarterly update are available on our website, msci.com, under the investor relations tab. Let me remind you that this call contains forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date on which they are made and are governed by the language on the second slide of today's presentation. For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties, please see the risk factors and forward-looking statements disclaimer in our most recent Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings. During today's call, in addition to results presented on the basis of U.S.GAAP, we'll also refer to non-GAAP measures including, but not limited to, organic operating revenue growth rates, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA expenses, adjusted EPS, and free cash flow. We believe our non-GAAP measures facilitate meaningful period-to-period comparisons and provide insight into our core operating performance. You'll find a reconciliation to the equivalent GAAP measures in earnings materials and an explanation of why we deem this information to be meaningful, as well as how management uses these measures in the appendix of the earnings presentation. We will also discuss run rate, which estimates at a particular point in time the annualized value of the recurring revenues under our client agreements for the next 12 months, subject to a variety of adjustments and exclusions that we detail in our SEC filings. As a result of those adjustments and exclusions, the actual amount of recurring revenues we realize over the following 12 months will differ from run rate. We, therefore, caution you to not place undue reliance on run rate to estimate or forecast recurring revenues. Additionally, we will discuss organic run rate growth figures, which exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency and the impact of any acquisitions or divestitures. On the call today are Henry Fernandez, our chairman and CEO; Baer Pettit, our president and COO; and Andy Wiechmann, our chief financial officer.

 



 Finally, I would like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode. And with that, let me now turn the call over to Henry Fernandez. Henry? Henry Fernandez -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jisoo. Welcome, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Apologies for my scratchy voice and a little bit of coughing. Before I talk about -- yes. Can you all hear me? OK. Thank you, Jisoo. Welcome, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Apologies for my scratchy voice and a little bit of coughing.

 



 Before I talk about MSCI's financial performance, I just want to say that our hearts go out to the people of Ukraine, who are suffering through one of the worst humanitarian prejudice in Europe since 1945. My sincere hope is that the world will ultimately emerge stronger from this crisis with a deeper respect for self-determination, national sovereignty and human rights, and a clearer sense of purpose among the liberal democracies of the world. The war has certainly put everything else in greater perspective for many of us. In the first quarter, MSCI delivered strong results that highlight both the strong resilience and long-term potential of our all-weather franchise. Not only are our solutions helping clients navigate market volatility and asset rotations, they're also helping them understand major structural changes in the global economy and the financial markets. Those changes include the fallout from Russian invasion of Ukraine, rising interest rates, elevated inflation, and the needed transition to a low carbon economy. During a period of historic geopolitical and economic turmoil, MSCI solutions have become increasingly more valuable to clients across the whole global investment industry. To put our first quarter results in perspective, we posted our best first quarter on record for both new and net new recurring subscription sales. We achieved organic subscription run rate growth of about 14% and nearly a 96% retention rate. Our adjusted EPS was up 21%, and we repurchased almost $800 million worth of MSCI share. Of course, the biggest global event of the quarter was Russia's unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine. MSCI responded immediately, providing essential support to our colleagues in the region and donating to key relief organizations. We made necessary adjustments to our existing products and business ties, including swift changes to our indices, while also developing new products, services, and insightful research to capture the new global landscape. All of these demonstrated once again how fast and nimble MSCI can adapt to an unexpected global crisis. Our resilience and momentum have allowed us to continue driving growth despite the uncertain environment. Indeed, we are finding innovative ways to grow both inside and outside our traditional client base. For example, our traditional client base of asset managers and asset owners collectively deliver subscription run rate growth of 11% in the first quarter, excluding acquisitions. So far this year, we have already seen more than $2 billion worth of incremental AUM from new mandates benchmarked to the MSCI climate Paris-aligned indices by asset owners in APAC and in EMEA. We're also driving a strategic benchmark wins with asset managers who are licensing custom indices they have designed using MSCI's new Index Builder application. We have onboarded about 18 clients onto the Index Builder platform already. At the same time, we keep adding new layers of growth in areas such as fixed income ESG and climate and private assets. This quarter, our ESG and climate retention rate hit an all-time high of 98.7%. We also recorded our second best quarter ever for new ESG and climate subscription sales. These data points tell us two things: First, ESG continues to become increasingly embedded in the global investment process. Second, our clients recognize the value that MSCI's ESG and climate offerings can provide. We continue to work to position MSCI as a leading provider of climate solutions and a standard setter. As of the first quarter, we've calculated implied temperature rise metrics for more than 10,000 issuers and nearly 134,000 tons. The implied temperature rise metric computes how the carbon emissions of companies and portfolios align or do not align with different global temperature pathways such as 1.5- or two-degree Celsius increases. Like all of our solutions, MSCI Climate products run on data. To give our clients a truly comprehensive and transparent view of the investment opportunities, we are transforming the way we collect, clean, and build data across product lines and asset classes. As I mentioned back in January, MSCI has always been a data processing factory. Now we're also becoming a data building machine. During moments of global uncertainty and disruptions, high-quality data becomes even more valuable as investors try to understand the presence and imagine the future. MSCI also continuously looks to the future to reinvent itself, including with respect to our organizational structure and agility. As previously announced, we made a number of senior leadership changes at the start of the year to support our ever-evolving business needs. These changes position us well for increased growth in the years to come. Likewise, our first quarter performance reflects the long-term investments we have made to build a durable, diversified, all-weather franchise. While external conditions may get more difficult, our fundamentals remain very strong. As we have proven, MSCI can deliver impressive results in every type of operating environment. This is what we mean by an all-weather franchise. And with that, let me turn the call over to Baer. Baer?Baer Pettit -- President and Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Henry, and greetings, everyone. As Henry mentioned, the biggest global event of the quarter was Russia's invasion of Ukraine. I join him in expressing our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. When the war began, MSCI quickly removed Russia from our emerging market indexes and reclassified it as a stand-alone index. We have also introduced new stress test scenarios specific to the war that clients run through our analytics products. Additionally, we closed out our de minimis financial exposure to clients in Russia, which is less than $1 million of run rate. We are well-positioned to succeed in a complex external environment, thanks to our resilient all-weather franchise. Despite the current turmoil, we remain convinced that long-term trends benefiting MSCI, including the indexation and globalization of portfolios, will endure. In my comments today, I will review the areas of our business where we will continue investing for long-term growth as reinforced by strong financial results, and a few examples of our actions to manage risks that we can control. I'll start with our continued momentum in scaling our ESG and climate franchise. Even as we enter a period of surging energy prices and muted technology sector valuations, demand for integrating ESG and climate considerations is resilient as clients continue to position themselves for long-term transformation. Our firmwide ES&G climate run rate is now $369 million, growing 46% year over year. In our reportable ESG and climate ratings and research segment, new client relationships continue to form almost 50% of new subscription sales. Our multiyear investments to build a large and complete data coverage universe are supporting our position as an industry standard setter. In ESG ratings and in our climate metrics, we now cover more than 9.5 million instruments across equities and fixed income, including ETFs, corporate and government bonds, bank loans, and derivatives. Next, I will discuss our progress in scaling our newer frontier client segments. In the ESG and Climate segment, over half of new subscription sales during the quarter were to wealth managers, hedge funds, broker-dealers, corporates, and insurance firms. These clients have diverse use cases for MSCI solutions, such as climate stress testing on their loan books, enhancing underwriting processes by better understanding counterparties, ESG, and carbon profiles, complying with new and emerging regulations, and monitoring of net zero commitments. We're also leaning into the connectivity across MSCI product lines to drive wins with these newer clients. Our strong first quarter sales included an EMEA insurance firm that launched insurance-linked products benchmarked to our custom indexes with a partner in fixed income. Across MSCI, our total run rate from insurance firms and all insurance-related use cases is $77 million, growing 19% year over year. In analytics, we're landing strategic mandates with equity and fixed income portfolio managers seeking to integrate ESG in portfolio construction process. Our run rate in analytics fixed income front office has grown approximately 50% year over year. Finally, we continue advancing our data ecosystem to equip our clients with the insights they need to understand the impact of today's macro backdrop on their portfolios. In analytics, we released an enhanced version of Climate Lab Enterprise during the quarter, with dedicated dashboards related to carbon intensity. While it's still early days, we see climate data as a sales enabler for various portfolio construction, reporting, and risk management use cases, and we're encouraged by a recent large multiyear client win in the Americas. In private assets, we also expect climate data to be a commercial enabler, including for cross sales. We recently completed a product release of our climate value at risk due diligence reports for RCA's large commercial real estate property database. In ESG ratings, our investments in our issuer communication portal are enabling a higher velocity of engagement with corporate issuers which is, in turn, further supporting data quality and timeliness. Our previously announced launch of MSCI Data Explorer places over 250 data sets across all MSCI product lines at our clients' fingertips. This is empowering them to self-service and discover tests and start new subscriptions. Across MSCI, our pipelines are healthy. Having said that, we're watching economic activity across regions closely and the effects on our clients, which we recognize may be uneven. In summary, our resilient franchise continues to benefit from our actions and long-term investments to diversify and enrich our platform. Across varying and unpredictable operating environments, we are committed to driving continued growth in the most efficient way possible, prudently, for all our stakeholders. Let me now turn the call over to Andy.Andy Wiechmann -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Baer, and hi, everyone. I want to drill into a few highlights of our all-weather financial model. We drove 14% organic subscription run rate growth during the quarter. To put that in perspective, this is an acceleration from 7% growth in the same period of 2017 and from 10% growth just a year ago. This acceleration of growth is a direct result of the increased investments we've been making into key growth areas over the last few years with your support. Our strong performance reinforces our long-term target of driving low double-digit subscription growth across MSCI. In Index, we delivered 12% subscription run rate growth aligned with our long-term targets and our 33rd consecutive quarter of double-digit subscription run rate growth. Asset-based fees, which are approximately one-fourth of MSCI's run rate, demonstrated remarkable resilience in the face of volatile global markets. During the quarter, equity ETFs linked to MSCI indexes grew net cash inflows of more than $27 billion, ending the quarter with AUM of $1.39 trillion on March 31. These inflows partially offset market declines of close to $90 billion since year-end. More broadly, since 2007 and through the end of last year, we've observed positive annual cash inflows into ETFs linked to MSCI indexes for all years, except one. Finally, fees from listed futures and options linked MSCI indexes, which are roughly 10% of asset-based fees are based on traded volumes and are not linked to AUM. And volumes in these products historically have tended to pick up in periods of market volatility, including this quarter, where we saw traded volumes up 19% and run rate up 11%. Our continual advancements in index innovation, which are centered on client demand, have enabled our ABF franchise to be both durable and diversified for the long term. Since 2012, run rate from asset-based fees has grown at a CAGR of 15%. For the quarter, in analytics, we drove 15% growth in new recurring subscription sales, which offset cancels primarily from client events. We continue to see good opportunities in front office equity and fixed income portfolio management. In ESG and Climate, we're driving a higher volume of larger ticket new sales with a pipeline that includes an encouraging set of large strategic deals across regions. As Baer mentioned, the firmwide sales pipeline remains healthy. We're watching the macro backdrop very closely. And while it may cause some variance in sales or cancels here or there, we're encouraged by the overall forward momentum. Across the firm, the product and client experience enhancements we're investing in are enabling cross-sell and pricing opportunities, while supporting continued strong retention, as well as the ability to win new clients. Let me now turn to our full year 2022 outlook. Our guidance across all categories is unchanged and assumes that global markets gradually improve from the current levels throughout the year. If AUM levels remain flat or deteriorate further, we will likely begin to implement elements of our downturn playbook and adjust our pace of investing on a very measured basis. Our full year tax rate guidance of 15.5% to 18.5% remains unchanged. Our low tax rate this quarter was consistent with our expectations of having a seasonally lower tax rate from the vesting of equity awards. We would expect a higher average tax rate for each of the remaining quarters in 2022. For the full year, we expect to drive continued high 50% margins on a consolidated basis, which is in line with our long-term target. As a reminder, the margin also reflects the integration of RCA, which is a lower-margin business. On the capital front, our proactive actions provide another lever of value in volatile environments. Year to date through yesterday, April 25, we've repurchased $795 million of our stock or over 1.5 million shares. We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $679 million, of which approximately $200 million is readily available. We continue to have Board authorization for a potential financing and we'll continue to monitor the markets for attractive windows, although we have no urgency to access the markets if they are not conducive. We have plenty of dry powder remaining to support strategic bolt-on MP&A deals. We can also support highly opportunistic repurchases, although at a more measured pace given current cash balances. In conclusion, that we are presented with an unpredictable operating environment, we remain laser-focused on executing on our growth agenda and remaining highly nimble and proactive against this backdrop. And with that, operator, please open the line for questions.   OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the MSCI first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Salli Schwartz, head of investor relations and treasurer. You may begin.Salli Schwartz -- Head of Investor Relations and Treasurer Thank you, operator. Good day, and welcome to the MSCI first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Earlier this morning, we issued a press release announcing our results for the first-quarter 2021. This press release, along with an earnings presentation we will reference on this call, as well as a brief quarterly update, are available on our website, msci.com, under the Investor Relations tab.

 



 Let me remind you that this call contains forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made and are governed by the language on the second slide of today's presentation. For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties, please see the risk factors and forward-looking statements disclaimer in our most recent Form 10-K and in our other SEC filings. During today's call, in addition to results presented on the basis of U.S.GAAP, we will also refer to non-GAAP measures including, but not limited to, organic operating revenue growth rate, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA expenses, adjusted EPS and free cash flow. We believe our non-GAAP measures facilitate meaningful period-to-period comparisons and provide insight into our core operating performance. You'll find a reconciliation to the equivalent GAAP measures in the earnings materials and an explanation of why we deem this information to be meaningful, as well as how management uses these measures, in the appendix of the earnings presentation. We will also discuss run rate, which estimates at a particular point in time, the annualized value of the recurring revenues under our client agreements for the next 12 months, subject to a variety of adjustments and exclusions that we detailed in our SEC filings. As a result of those adjustments and exclusions, the actual amount of recurring revenues we will realize over the following 12 months will differ from run rate. We, therefore, caution you not to place undue reliance on run rate to estimate or forecast recurring revenue. Additionally, we will discuss organic run rate growth figures, which exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency and the impact of any acquisitions or divestitures. On the call today are Henry Fernandez, our chairman and CEO; Baer Pettit, our president and COO; and Andy Wiechmann, our chief financial officer. [Operator instructions] With that, let me now turn the call over to Henry Fernandez. Henry? 

 



Henry Fernandez -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Salli. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. When we spoke at our investor day in February, I pointed to our 50-plus year track record of building standards and our continued role in transforming the global investment world. MSCI's mission remains to enable investors build better portfolios for a better world. Our excellent first-quarter performance demonstrates the financial benefits of our mission and the ongoing strategic and disciplined investments we have made in the client experience in our client segments and in our solutions and capabilities. For the quarter, we achieved total revenue growth of 15%, adjusted EBITDA growth of 21% and adjusted earnings-per-share growth of 30%. We also generated free cash flow of $205 million, doubling year over year. At investor day, my colleagues and I spoke about MSCI's strategy to support the investment process needs of various client segments with highly differentiated solutions, supported by best-in-class capabilities. I would like to highlight recent selected advancements within each of these areas. Within clients, I would like to emphasize the wealth management segment, where industry trends toward digitalization, the signing of model portfolios, an incorporated sustainability criteria continue to drive significant demand for MSCI's offerings. A growing interest in direct indexing in wealth management is creating opportunities for MSCI. This personalized portfolio solutions leverage MSCI's models, data and technology from across the entire franchise, including our index capabilities, optimization tools and ESG and climate data.

 



 Staying on clients, let me also touch on corporates, our newest client segment, where we now serve 53 corporate issuers, 42 corporate advisor entities and two distribution platforms. We continue to see strong corporate interest related to our ESG and climate offerings. Corporate needs range from benchmarking against underlying ESG and climate data to licensing our ESG ratings for new sustainability-link financings. I would like now to highlight our progress, expanding and deepening our solutions in climate change, which is increasingly recognized as an existential threat to our planet and a major investment and portfolio risk. Put simply, we believe that addressing the impacts of climate change will require the largest reconstruction of the global economy since the industrial revolution. Capital markets are an essential and critical force to drive the transition to a net zero world with considered actions from all participants. These actions range from a reallocation of capital by asset owners, effective channeling of funds by asset managers and banks to greener investments and innovation, to decarbonizing operations by companies. Last week, my colleagues and I put forth our call to action to all participants in the global investment community to support a net zero revolution. We urge asset owners and asset managers to decarbonize their portfolios, effect change on companies through voting and shareholder engagement and transition to investment policy benchmarks that reflect a path to net zero. Providers, users and intermediaries of capital have a fundamental responsibility to reduce their impact on the planet and join the journey to a decarbonized economy as quickly as possible. Failure to identify the investment opportunities and risks related to climate change will result in missed opportunities and avoidable losses. We're also holding ourselves to the same high standards. MSCI, as a company, recently committed to reach net zero-carbon emissions before 2040. This commitment is in addition to our prior pledge to reduce by 2025 our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 50% and our Scope 3 emissions by 20%. This past quarter, we also became an official supporter of the TCFD. We integrated climate risks into our internal risk management framework and announced our commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. As we said in our call to action, the time to act is now. Regulators, asset owners and managers and societies are all encouraged to adopt and adapt a net zero emissions targets, especially before the COP26 conference later this year. Supporting the investment industry as it undertakes this enormous paradigm shift makes investing in our climate franchise, a critical Triple-Crown investment priority. At MSCI, we have an enormous opportunity to be a leading provider of all the necessary data, models and technology to help all capital market participants accelerate this significant economic transformation. Let me now turn to our critical capabilities, where I would like to highlight a recent strategic development. Last week, we announced a strategic collaboration with Royalty Pharma plc, the largest buyer of biopharmaceutical royalties and a leading funder of innovation across the life sciences industry. Together, we will develop thematic indices for the biotech and biopharma megatrend. Royalty Pharma will provide MSCI with expertise on various medical conditions, clinical trials, transformative therapies and technologies that may lead to breakthrough medical treatments. This knowledge and expertise will assist MSCI in the design of a classification framework and in index methodologies. Just as MSCI has become a standard in market cap-weighted indices, we are building a strong brand in nonmarket cap-weighted indices, including ESG, climate and factor indices, and now, thematic indices, capturing the major megatrend opportunities in the world. If you consider the sizable business we have built in market cap-weighted indices and the significantly larger and broader range of applications for nonmarket cap indices, you can quickly see why we are so excited about these opportunities. You already have a sense for the potential for ESG, climate and factor indices. Let me, therefore, take a minute to describe what we believe is possible with thematic indexes. Our thematic indexes provide investors already made way to tap into societal megatrends that are creating both disruption and opportunities. The three most significant megatrends we have identified include high tech, for which we have partnered with ARK Invest; biotech, for which we have now this new partnership with Royalty Pharma; and clean energy, an increasing area of focus for investors, and therefore, for MSCI. You will see us continue to build partnerships in these areas and others to ensure we have access to best-in-class subject matter expertise. Before I turn the call over to Baer and Andy, I'll take a few moments to describe our observations on our global operating environment. Notwithstanding the ongoing risks associated with the continued pandemic, the rollout of vaccines provides hope for our collective health and will unleash unprecedented pent-up economic activity, starting in the U.S. Many financial markets are already reflecting this expectation. MSCI is very well-positioned to benefit from this, in addition to the secular trends that are accelerating MSCI's opportunity set. We need to continue to scale MSCI to ensure we appropriately capitalize on these significant opportunities ahead of us. As we continue through 2021, we remain deeply committed to investing responsibly in Triple-Crown opportunities in order to leverage and build on the established scale of our business. We are confident we can continue to create long-term value for all of our various stakeholders. With that, I will now like to turn the call over to Baer. Baer?Baer Pettit -- President and Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Henry, and greetings, everyone. I'll echo Henry's enthusiasm for the strong momentum with which we've started the year. Total subscription sales across MSCI reached a first-quarter record high. Asset-based fees also achieved a milestone, surpassing $500 million in run rate. As I highlighted during our investor day presentation, our very deep client relations are central to our successful commercial model. In our 2020 client survey, MSCI's global Net Promoter Score, a leading indicator of client retention and loyalty, increased to 45 points, up 6 points compared to 2019 and above the average scores for the financial services, enterprise software and SaaS industries. In the first quarter of 2021, net new recurring subscription sales were nearly $34 million, growing 46% year on year, driven by ESG and climate, as well as double-digit growth across analytics, index and private assets. Accordingly, MSCI's subscription run rate expanded 11% or nearly $140 million versus the prior year. This included a remarkable 42% increase or nearly $44 million in ESG and climate's run rate, as, well as a more than $60 million increase in index's subscription run rate. MSCI's total retention rate in the first quarter was 96.3%, up 130 basis points year over year. Henry noted our efforts with wealth managers. As you are aware, this is one of our newer but very promising client segments. At the end of the first quarter, we had a $64 million run rate from wealth managers, up 28% year over year. We also continue to see strong growth and continued momentum in our more established client segments. For example, subscription run rate from asset managers and asset owners, which, together, comprise about two-thirds of total subscription run rate, were up 11% year over year. Let me make a few observations about this quarter from a regional point of view. In EMEA, MSCI generated 16% subscription run-rate growth, driven by strong growth across product segments, but with particular success in ESG and climate, as the forthcoming COP26 conference, the need for TCFD reporting and the significant increases in net zero alignment spurred strong client activity. In APAC, new subscription sales are regaining momentum and grew 36% year over year in the first quarter. Business activity is returning to normal subsequent to the pandemic. In Japan, opportunities were created by new regulations on liquidity. Total subscription run-rate growth was strong across the regions, growing 16%, 9% and 8% year over year in EMEA, APAC and the Americas, respectively. On the back of a great start to the year, our global sales pipeline remains healthy across both products and regions, as well as above levels of last year. As Henry noted, the rapidly growing attention to climate risk has been a significant contributor to our sales pipeline as MSCI's expertise is well recognized. To that end, we continue to enrich our suite of climate data, models and technology. Let me provide a few examples. Following our successful introduction of MSCI climate scenario analysis models, including climate value at risk, we are developing climate models for new asset classes, including fixed income. We also continue to enrich our data sets, including for Scope 3 emissions and to strengthen our TCFD reporting solutions. We have completed TCFD reporting projects for some of the world's most prominent asset owners and institutions, ranging from climate risk portfolio-level reporting to temperature alignment comparisons to benchmarks. We recently launched MSCI Climate Paris Aligned fixed income indexes, following our successful launches of MSCI fixed income climate indexes and MSCI Climate Paris Aligned equity indexes. Finally, and coming soon, we plan to introduce cloud-native climate risk-focused application that showcases MSCI climate models and data. This offering leverages Microsoft tools and AI technology in connection with our broader efforts to deliver investment solutions as a service. As Henry referenced, we are investing to capitalize on the sizable addressable opportunities in climate, including in areas like banks, stress testing and corporate needs, to capture climate stress tests. Both have the potential to become mandatory requirements in the future. Overall, MSCI's run rate from climate now totals over $20 million across the franchise. We expect this part of the business to continue to grow rapidly as we help investors evaluate, manage and address climate risk in their portfolios. Before I move on from solutions, I'll provide a brief update on our progress in fixed income. In analytics, our fixed income portfolio management run rate has expanded nearly 60% off a small but very rapidly growing base. We are gaining traction by bringing to market fresh solutions that improve upon the quality of models, workflows and usability of legacy solutions. We're also benefiting from the investments we've made over the years to improve our single security analytics, factor models and performance models. In ESG and climate, we're developing physical risk climate scores for U.S. municipal bonds. We're also building new applications for our Climate Value-at-Risk tool, including for sovereign bonds. In index, we have seen our clients continue to attract assets in fixed income ETFs linked to MSCI and Bloomberg Barclays MSCI indexes. AUM in those ETFs reached more than $20 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2021, growing more than 200% year over year. As you can see, our strategy in fixed income is to differentiate ourselves by providing high-quality products that play toward specific areas of strength. Our ability to integrate offerings across the MSCI franchise also continues to be an important differentiating factor and driver for clients to turn to MSCI for fixed income solutions. Across asset classes, products and data, we continue to prioritize an open-architecture approach to enhance the client experience and flexibility across MSCI. Recently, we integrated MSCI's ESG research into our hedge platform, such that we can now provide ESG and climate metrics calculated on position-level holdings, allowing hedge funds to support asset owner net zero goals. We're also further enhancing climate data integration capabilities in our risk management platform within analytics. Given the strong momentum with which we've begun this year, we have accelerated the pace of our investments in key growth areas, such as ESG and climate, fixed income and private markets, to enhance our data, research, technology and client coverage. As always, we will make these investments in the context of our rigorous Triple-Crown framework. Let me now turn the call over to Andy. He will speak more to our outlook as part of his review of our guidance, as well as further discuss our recent financial performance. Over to you, Andy.Andy Wiechmann -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Baer, and hi, everyone. As Henry and Baer noted, we are encouraged by the favorable economic and market backdrop, and we are seeing a fairly healthy client environment. We're excited by the strong start to the year and the momentum we have developed across the business. In index, we recorded subscription run-rate growth of nearly 11%, now marking the 29th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth. And as Baer noted, asset-based fee run rate surpassed $500 million. In analytics, we saw a nice improvement in the retention rate to a record level, underscoring the leading and mission-critical nature of our solutions. Furthermore, analytics continues to be a key enabler of our integrated franchise by helping build and distribute products in index, ESG and climate and private assets, ranging from calculation tools to modeling engines and flexible content delivery. This was the first quarter we presented ESG and climate and all other private assets at separate reportable segments. ESG and climate experienced a further acceleration in growth, growing 38% in revenue and 42% in run rate. Run rate in all other private assets, which currently consists of our real estate business, grew 15%, as we are seeing strong traction with our revamped enterprise analytics offering in Europe. We showed operating leverage across all segments during the quarter. In index and ESG and climate, revenue growth outpaced investment spending. And in analytics and real estate, we had relatively flat expenses, benefiting from continued savings in lower travel and entertainment expenses. Within our asset-based fee revenue, we saw solid performance across all components with 27% growth year over year, fueled by exceptional growth in ETFs linked to our indexes. Assets under management and ETFs linked to our indexes reached a record level of more than $1.2 trillion at quarter end and a further record of approximately $1.26 trillion as of last Thursday. The exceptional growth in AUM during the quarter was driven by cash inflows of nearly $62 billion into equity ETFs linked to MSCI indexes, representing 23% of all cash inflows into equity ETFs with continued strength in both developed markets outside the U.S. and emerging market exposures, where we captured more than 30% and 50% of all inflows during the quarter, respectively. On a product level, ETFs linked to MSCI, ESG and climate equity indexes experienced cash inflows of nearly $25 billion during the quarter, representing 70% market share of all global ESG and climate equity ETF flows. We are pleased to see the broader adoption of factor objectives with $10 billion of inflows into value and momentum factor ETFs linked to our indexes, which more than offset the flows we saw out of minimum volatility products. Our strong commercial and top-line success during the quarter translated into strong financial results. Our 30% adjusted earnings per-share growth year over year was primarily driven by the significant revenue growth with additional benefits from operating leverage and share repurchases at attractive prices. Turning to our balance sheet. We ended the quarter with a cash balance of approximately $1.75 billion after issuing $500 million of notes due 2030 at a coupon of 3.58%. In mid-April, we used the offering proceeds, along with cash on hand, to redeem all $500 million of our 2026 notes that had a coupon of 4.75%. Pro forma for the redemption, we had about $1.2 billion of cash and a total debt to adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio of 3.3 times, within our targeted range of 3.0 to 3.5 times. With our leverage in the middle of our targeted range, I want to highlight that we continue to monitor the markets and may raise additional debt, if we see an attractive opportunity. We continue to be highly confident in our capital position, and our capital allocation priorities have not changed. We remain focused on reinvesting in the business as a first priority, dividends growing with adjusted EPS and truly opportunistic MP&A and share repurchases with a strong focus on maximizing returns to shareholders. This quarter, we returned more than $200 million to shareholders through dividends, as well as share repurchases at an average price per share of $407.70. I'll now turn to our guidance. As we mentioned last quarter and at investor day, our pace of investment may flex up or down based on the trajectory of our asset-based fees. More specifically, we highlighted that our initial expense guidance was based on the assumption of relatively flat market levels for the year. The strong trajectory year-to-date with AUM up nearly 15% as of last Thursday, together with the favorable outlook, gives us confidence to activate our upturn playbook. We have, therefore, increased our expense guidance range, reflecting our intent to continue to invest in Triple-Crown investments to support future growth. As you know, continued investment in Triple-Crown areas remains a top priority for us. At the same time, we remain committed to positive operating leverage and modest margin expansion. We also reduced our tax rate guidance, taking into account the low rate in the first quarter, in large part driven by a windfall benefit from the vesting of stock-based compensation, as well as our current view on a number of discrete items. We increased our free cash flow guidance, primarily to reflect our strong asset-based fees and collections in the first quarter. In summary, the overall operating environment within many parts of the investment industry is healthier than it has been in recent quarters, and MSCI remains uniquely positioned to help investors across their most mission-critical needs. The first quarter was a very strong start to 2021 for MSCI. While the environment is likely to remain somewhat volatile, we believe we are well-positioned for the longer term with our attractive all-weather business model, client-centric approach and laser focus on establishing and solidifying standards for the investment industry. With that, operator, please open the line for questions. 