  OperatorHello and thank you for standing by for JD.com's first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] After management's prepared remarks, there will be a question and set -- answer session. This conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting over to your host for today's conference, Ruiyu Li.Ruiyu Li -- Senior Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator, and welcome to our first-quarter 201 earnings conference call. Joining me on the call today are Mr. Lei Xu, CEO of JD Retail; and Sandy Xu, our CFO. For today's agenda, our CEO of JD Retail, Mr. Xu, will share his thoughts on the Q1 performance, followed by our CFO, Sandy, who will discuss the financial highlights for the first quarter of 2021. Both Lei and Sandy will join the Q&A session. Before we continue, I refer you to our safe harbor statements in the earnings press release, which applies to this call as we will make forward-looking statements. Also, this call includes discussions of certain non-GAAP financial measures.Please refer to our earnings release, which contains a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. Finally, please note, otherwise -- unless otherwise stated, all figures mentioned during this conference call are in RMB. Now, I would like to turn the call over to our CEO of JD Retail, Mr. Lei. Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail

 



 [Foreign language] Unknown speaker Thank you, Ruiyu. Hello, everyone. This is Lei Xu, CEO of JD Retail. Thank you for joining us on this quarter's earning call today.Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail

 



 [Foreign language] Unknown speaker This year marks the 18th anniversary of the establishment of JD.com. In the past 18 years, at the heart of the deep integration of China's real economy and digital economy, we have faced many opportunities and challenges. JD has created a unique business model whose core philosophy for success is about providing the superior customer experience, cost optimization, and operational efficiency. These pursuits also [Audio gap] of a core and competitive advantages of our long-held business principle of doing the right thing and our unique business model have helped us to win greater trust from our users and partners while enabling us to stable result -- to stay resilient through economic cycles and weather all risks. As you can see, based on this, JD's business logistic has become increasingly open. We are enhancing our capacities to empower others, not only rising to the challenges we face but also seeing opportunities for long-term growth. Here, I would like to share some key progresses that JD Retail achieved in the past quarter from the following three aspects.Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail [Foreign language] Unknown speaker First, high-quality growth of business and users. JD Retail's revenue has maintained high growth in the first quarter with continued improvement in both operating efficiency and profit margins. Our CFO, Sandy, will elaborate on this later. This lays the solid foundation for our businesses in the following quarters. We are even more encouraged to see that many of our suppliers and partners achieved a healthy and sustainable business growth and profitability expansion in a challenging market environment through their partnership with JD.Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail [Foreign language] Unknown speaker Coupled with robust operating performance, we are also inspired by the growth of our high-quality active users. By April 1, the number of our annual active users reached the 500 million mark. By the end of Q1, annual active users grow by 29% year on year. In the past 12 months, we gained 112 million new active users, with over 80% coming from lower-tier markets. Meanwhile, our unique consumer market share for quality products and a superior shopping experience resonates strongly with our customers as we see higher engagement from them. In the first quarter, we have seen all-around improvement in terms of existing and new users retention rates, shopping frequency, purchases, and a wider range of product categories, as well as average spending per user. This shows that both the number of users and their lifetime value on JD's platform are expanding. We still have much room to grow. Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail [Foreign language] Unknown speaker Second, [Audio gap] online marketplace ecosystem. JD Retail's online marketplace business also made meaningful progress during the quarter. The growth rate of our online marketplace business exceeded our 1P business. Our online marketplace ecosystem also becomes increasingly abundant. In particular, the growth rate of apparels and beauty categories reached a three-year high. Moreover, not only have we made significant progress in long-tail categories but also categories such as home appliances and FMCG that are JD's 1P advantage categories. Also showed accelerated 3P growth. With the development of our online marketplace ecosystem, its positioning in the consumer's market share will continue to be enhanced.Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail [Foreign language] Unknown speaker As I mentioned on our last earnings call, the online marketplace ecosystem has always been an area of huge potential for JD. With several years of continued efforts, we have now established a sound foundation. Since the beginning of the year, we have seen meaningful improvement in existing merchants' renewal rates and their engagement level, as well as significant increase a variety of brands and merchants available on our platform. This year, we have welcomed more and more leading brands and merchants from home and abroad to JD's platform, including Guozijian, Starbucks, Decathlon, and a suite of fashion brands under BESTSELLER Group and more. Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail [Foreign language] Unknown speaker We also continue to collaborate with more brand partners through innovative models. For example, JD and Louis Vuitton launched an innovative collaboration in April with a groundbreaking online luxury shopping model that provides consumers with direct access to the brand's latest collections. It supplements luxury consumption scenarios currently available online, helps to further enhance JD's users luxury shopping experience, and promotes broader innovation of the luxury industry in China.Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail [Foreign language] Unknown speaker All of these successful cases demonstrate JD's ability to provide unique value for our brands and merchants and serve as great examples for more business partners. With China's retail industry continuing to develop in a more beneficial direction, we expect more and more brands and merchants in all categories will come to JD's platform. The upcoming June 18 grand promotion marks the 18th anniversary of JD.com. We plan to help more than 230 brands achieve over RMB100 million in sales. Looking ahead, we will continue to innovate and explore various models that best suit JD's online marketplace ecosystem.Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail [Foreign language] Unknown speaker Third, omnichannel continues to advance. The challenge is coming from the external environment and competitors these days all have validated JD Retail's forward-looking omnichannel strategy. In fact, JD Retail's current business model has already evolved far beyond an online B2C e-commerce model. Therefore, it's uniquely positioned in exploring the omnichannel field, leveraging our state-of-the-art spa -- supply chain management, digital operation, and integrated marketing capacities. In various consumption scenarios, JD Retail is collaborating with the suppliers and partners to build an adaptive model that can efficiently serve various types of consumer demands in any scenarios, anywhere and anytime. For instance, we're actively collaborating with leading traffic ecosystems such as Douyin, Kuaishou, [Inaudible], and more in diversified online consumption scenarios and provide our business partners with our strong supply chain middle platform capacities, omnichannel marketing, and across the board user assets management solutions. In this process, we achieved the unification of products and people in the increasingly diversified retail industry, propelling further optimization of cost efficiency and user experience.Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail [Foreign language] Unknown speaker JD Retail's vision is to sell goods from all over the world and to sell all kinds of goods to the world.Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail [Foreign language] Unknown speaker To conclude, despite all the challenges facing us right now, the accelerated growth we achieved last year and the long-term investments we are making to expand the total addressable market. JD Retail, as the core business of JD.com, will continue to strive for high-end healthy growth in 2021 and serve as the cornerstone for JD.com's overall development.Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail [Foreign language] Unknown speaker This concludes my remarks. I'll now give the floor to our CFO, Sandy.Sandy Xu -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Lei. Hello, everyone. We are expected to get up to a flying start in 2021 with robust operating and financial performance in the first quarter. As Lei pointed out, our unique business philosophy and model allow us to embrace innovation and take advantage of structural changes that are taking place in China. Before going through the financial results, I will touch upon a few highlights from the first quarter. This year marks the 18th year since the launch of JD.com. Along the way, we have been able to build a comprehensive set of the supply chain, fulfillment in technology capabilities to serve customers and business partners. Our business model has evolved from being the largest retail company in China by revenue to a supply chain-based technology and service provider. We are rolling a snowball on a very long slope and continue to gain momentum. Some of these capacities that we have been building for years are turning into promising growth opportunities and achieving important milestones. And a number of our younger businesses are seeing exciting developments and rapid iteration. At this stage, the most notable among them include, first, JD Logistics, which has published its prospectors-- on May 17th and expect to lease on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on May 28, 2021; second, JD Property, which completed its series of prepared share financing by the end of Q1; third, our international businesses that grew triple digits in Q1; and fourth, our Jingxi business, which aims to synchronize our efforts and resources in lower-tier markets. To help the investors better understand the different growth trajectories of our expanding business lines and how they are evaluating from the management perspective, starting from Q1 2021, we restructured our segment presentation. The changes in segment reporting mainly include, first, JD Logistics is presented as a stand-alone segment, its revenues include revenues generated from both JD Retail and external customers from JD Group's perspective, the eliminations at the group level are presented in the line of net revenue intersegment; second, the operating result of JD Property and Jingxi business, which includes our social e-commerce platform Jingxi, convenience store business, Jingxitong, and community group purchase business, Jingxi Pinpin, has been carved out from the JD Retail segment and are reported entered the new businesses segment. As a result of these changes, we now report three main segments namely, JD Retail, JD Logistics, and new businesses. New businesses segment primarily include JD Property, Jingxi business, international business, JD cloud, and AI business. The prior-period segment information has been retrospectively revised to conform to the current period presentation. And these changes have no impact on our consolidated result. On another note, the transaction with JD Technology, formerly known as JD Digits, was completed on March 31, 2021. We did consolidate the cloud and AI business starting from March 31, 2021. The updated segment presentation reflects not only our current organization's structure but also the different development stages of various business lines. JD Retail's revenue grew 35% year on year to RMB186 billion in Q1. This is a robust growth on top of our relatively higher base compared to the industry in Q1 2020 as we largely maintain operations during the COVID outbreak. That said, internally, we evaluate our retail business performance by looking at the two-year CAGR, i.e., the compound growth rate of our business in Q1 2021 over Q1 2019, which smooths out the disruption caused by the pandemic. Therefore, it better depicts the underlying growth momentum of our businesses. Our core JD Retail business clearly remains --- growth trajectory after 18 years of operation with 27% two-year CAGR of revenues in Q1 nearly doubled the growth rate of China's total online retail sales of goods over the same period. We continue to see successful category expansion. General merchandise revenues reported 36 year-on-year growth and a two-year CAGR of 37% in Q1 2021, continuing the strong momentum on top of the high growth in Q1 last year, boosted by the structural pickup in demand and enhanced consumer main share of JD general merchandise categories. This was led by our supermarket, healthcare, home product, and cosmetics categories. Our electronics and home appliance revenues increase to 34% year on year, and a two-year CAGR of 21% during Q1, a clear recovery from last year and continuing to significantly outperform the industry. More notably, the fast revenue growth of our core retail business was accompanied by even-factor profit growth. The operating profit of JD Retail grew 45% year on year, and a two-year CAGR of 46% in Q1, considerably outpacing its revenue growth during the same period in spite of intense competition. The operating margin of JD Retail improved by 27 basis points year on year and reached 4% in Q1 driven by an increase in fulfilled gross margin and technology-led operating leverage. This was the second-highest operating margin level of JD Retail in our history only slightly below 4.2% achieved in Q3 2020 with the Social Security benefit. Once again, we continue to maintain margin improvement even as our product mix shifts toward the high frequency but small ticket size consumer staple categories that are yet to fully realize earnings potential. All in all, while maintaining healthy growth, our core retail business is well on track to expand margins over the long term. Our daily logistics business, JDL, is at a high-secular growth stage while it continues to invest in infrastructure and capacities to expand its total addressable market and drive future growth. JDL's revenues reached RMB22 billion in Q1 with year-on-year growth accelerated to a historical high of 64% from 34% in Q1 2020 and a two-year CAGR was 48%. Start in the second half of 2020, JDL started to reinvest the benefits from Social Security reduction and other supportive measures by the government. Each received in logistics infrastructure and technologies to expand market potential. As a result, its operating loss ratio widened to 6.6% percent in Q1 from 3.1% in the same quarter last year. JD Logistics currently operates over 1,000 warehouses with an aggregate gross floor area of over 21 million square meters. Under new businesses segment, we recorded fast growth across the board from all sub-business lines during the quarter. Total revenue of new businesses grew 56% year on year to RMB5 billion Q1, an eyeball-to-eyeball comparable basis with a two-year CAGR of 42%. As we are seeing many exciting developments, our new businesses are in a very early stage of incubating that required investment. In Q1, we invested and incurred a 2.3 billion operating loss in new businesses, compared to an operating loss of one RMB1.4 billion in the same period last year mainly due to our investments in the newly formed Jingxi business group. Jingxi businesses, they're mission is to serve price-sensitive consumers and business partners in lower-tier markets and create value to the society through leveraging JD's technology and supply chain capacity as well as fulfillment infrastructure. That said, in the first quarter of operation, Jingxi Pinpin services have covered 17 provinces recording rapid order volume growth by offering differentiated user experiences. We are committed to driving forward our strategies to serve the lower-tier markets enter the Jingxi brand. Now turning toward traditional review of our financial performance. Total net revenue grew 39% year on year, and 29.5% two-year CAGR to RMB203 billion in Q1. It is worth highlighting that our net service revenue growth reached 73% year on year, highest the growth rate in the last five years. The two-year CAGR of net service revenues in Q1 was 50%, significantly outpacing the 27 two-year CAGR net product revenues during the same period. This is mainly driven by the triple-digit year-on-year growth of JD Logistics external revenue and over 60% year-on-year growth of our advertising revenue in Q1. As a result, net service revenues contributed 13.7% of our total revenues in Q1, up from 11% a year ago, and 10.3% in Q1 2019, boding well for our diversifying revenue growth potential. Our non-GAAP operating margin was 1.7% in Q1, 50 basis points lower year on year. This was largely a result of our continued investments in new capacities of JD Logistics and to a lesser extent, our investment in new businesses namely, Jingxi, cloud, and AI. Non-GAAP income attributable to ordinary shareholders was RMB4 billion, with non-GAAP net margin remained stable year over year at 2%. Even as we resumed marketing efforts and increased investments in our logistics and the new business opportunities to position for the long term, it is worth highlighting that we continue to generate operating efficiency and to further shorten our inventory turnover days to 31.2 days in the last 12 months. While we expand the total number of SKUs directly managed by us into the one-tier model, which exceeded 8 million in Q1 2021. As of March 31st, cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments added up to a total of RMB139 billion. Our free cash flow for Q1 was an outflow of RMB9.7 billion, as compared to an outflow of RMB3 billion a year ago. Besides the seasonality factor, decrease in the quarterly free cash flow was also due to our early payments or prepayments to certain suppliers to secure some sought-after merchandise especially amid a global shortage of supply of consumer electronics components and increase of capex in the quarter and free cash flow for the training complements worth RMB28 billion, up from RMB15 billion a year ago. Lastly, we repurchased approximately 10 million ADS for approximately US$800 million year to date, under the US$2 billion share repurchase program approved by the board in March 2020. In summary, we manage to continue our strong user and topline growth momentum with diversified growth drivers, maintain solid online performance while continuing to invest for the long term. Once again, we demonstrated the resilience of our unique business model with a robust performance of our core business and our long-term approach of building core competence with new businesses. JD is a tough position of strength. That concludes my prepared remarks. Let's now move on to Q&A. Thank you. 