  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Iron Mountain first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. All participants will be in a listen only mode. [Operator instruction] Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Gillian Tiltman, senior vice president, and head of investor relations, Gillian, please go ahead.Gillian Tiltman -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Bricka. Good morning, and welcome to our first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. On today's call, we will refer to materials available on our investor relations website. We are joined today by Bill Meaney, president, and chief executive officer; and Barry Hytinen, our executive vice president, and chief financial officer.

 



 After prepared remarks, we'll open up the lines for Q&A. Today's earnings materials contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our expectations. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. Please refer to today's earnings materials, the Safe Harbor language on slide two, in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of the major risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements.In addition, we use several non-GAAP measures when presenting our financial results. We have included the reconciliations to these measures in our supplemental financial information. With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill. Bill Meaney -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Gillian, and thank you all for taking the time to join us today. Our team delivered exceptional results for the first quarter of 2022, exceeding the expectations we provided on our last call. This record performance is reflective of our broad offerings, deep customer relationships, resilient business model, and dedicated team. Whilst we are thrilled to report these results, it's important to take a moment to acknowledge the events happening in Ukraine impacting the world at large.

 



 As we navigate this devastating conflict, we continue to prioritize our mountaineers and their families. To that end, I am comforted to share that all 65 of our colleagues from Ukraine, continue to check in with our global risk, safety, and security team on a daily basis, and all are safe. Some families have made the difficult decision to migrate to other countries, and I am proud of how our fellow mountaineers in the region have offered assistance in providing comfort and resettlement. I continue to be both inspired by and grateful to all the teams in Ukraine, and the surrounding countries who have united to support each other in this crisis. I visited the region twice recently, and I remain humbled by the strength of our colleagues, and we remain committed to supporting our affected mountaineers and continue to hope and pray for a rapid resolution of this war. Now, if I may, let me begin our discussion of our first quarter results, a record for the company. We achieved our highest ever quarterly revenue of $1.25 billion, exceeding our expectations of $1.2 billion, yielding 10% of total organic revenue growth, and an all-time record EBITDA of $431 million. We continue to be encouraged by the increased demand of our services across key markets fueling these results. As pricing and positive volume trends continue to benefit us, we delivered organic storage rental revenue growth of 6.8% in the first quarter. We drove double-digit growth in digital offerings, including data center, GDS, Digital Transformation Services, and ALM, or Asset Lifecycle Management. As you know, we've been growing quickly in over the past two years, we have been growing faster than even our expectations. I have shared with you previously how our continued build-out of new products and services, as well as growth in these underlying markets, has now taken our total addressable market to over $120 billion, accelerating us on our growth trajectory path. Turning to our ALM business, we achieved several solid wins that spanned industries, many of which were made possible through the strong combination of Iron Mountain and the recently acquired IP Renew, which has been performing even better than we had anticipated. An example of the power of this combination can be seen in our expansion on a customer win with a large financial institution that we were originally awarded in early 2021. With the additional expertise, we acquired with IP Renew, we expanded our offerings to include market-leading recycling expertise, as the whole world is focused on how to better embrace the concepts around a more circular economy, and reduce our impact on the environment. Along with this added expertise, we now have a full set of capabilities which are truly differentiating in the eyes of not only this customer, but also most of our global customers.

 



 Another ALM win this quarter was for a task order for Iron Mountain to provide onsite media destruction, and ALM services to 18 US locations, including data centers and office locations, in which all [inaudible] will be included as in scope. Several key factors in awarding us the RFP included secure logistics, global footprint, partner network, and existing trusted relationships. For this customer, we expect to expand services to multiple regions, including the United Kingdom, Brazil, India, and Canada. These are just some of the wins this quarter which demonstrate the strength of our expanded airline platform, which will directly benefit from either RIM 225 thousand loyal customer base, which includes 95% of the Fortune 1000. Our continued drive in building an extraordinary set of synergistic in customer-centric solutions, combined with our global reach and footprint, propels our growth forward. Now let me share a few examples of how we've been empowering our customers' success and growth through our diverse Digital Transformation Solutions, or DTS offerings coupled with our customer focus. In the first quarter, we received fully executed service orders for two large deals in the energy vertical for one of the world's largest oil and gas companies. Both projects will allow our customer to identify and access dark data to provide quicker decisions in to better manage their assets. The total value of these two deals represents more than $12 million. We are looking forward to replicating this success with other energy customers. Turning to the Asia Pacific region, I would like to highlight a large win with an Asian full-service universal bank that I had the honor to visit in March. Iron Mountain will provide digitization services to assist our customers' local compliance requirements, a [inaudible], which are anti-money laundering-related requirements for a total contract value of $4 million. We are also thrilled to report a customer win that is resulting in a five-year $8 million digital mailroom deal, leveraging our content services platform or insights. This Fortune 500 mutual insurance customer, after handling their own mail in-house for more than 100-years, came to us with this opportunity, which was both complex and emotional for the customer. Our success here is a direct result of our long-standing strategic partnership. We also continue to grow our business with immigration, refugees, and citizenship Canada, or IRCC, which facilitates the arrival of immigrants, provides protection to refugees and offers programming to help newcomers settle in Canada. In 2020, Iron Mountain began supporting IRCC with imaging a variety of application forms. There was an immediate need to process a backlog of applications with their staff working from home as a result of the pandemic. Today, we have processed approximately 115 thousand applications, representing over 14.7 million images. Building from this initial work in Toronto, we grew the project by securing an additional contract worth $2.9 million. In addition, we recently awarded a 1.3 million RFP to expand its image initiative to Atlantic in Western Canada. This would not have been possible without our work in supporting this customer from day one, positioning Iron Mountain as a critical business partner. In our [inaudible] business, we are pleased to highlight our installation of a piece of art entitled "Just What is your position" by a distinguished LA artist at the new terminal at LAX. This installation highlights our team's expertise and precision with regard to complicated installation that will now be on display for millions of travelers. Last but surely not least, turning to our data center business, you will recall that we initially expected to leave 50-megawatts this year. By the end of Q1, however, we had already signed a total of 35-megawatts, including a single tenant of 27-megawatts for our London two location. We are excited about the continued demand we see across Europe as we bring on adding capacity to the market in the coming months. Since March, we have sold an additional 72-megawatt lease on our Northern Virginia campus. This is a near build-to-suit type of agreement, where we are responsible for leasing on a long-term basis, the land, the shell, and a large portion of the installed MEP, or Mechanical Electrical Plant. Iron Mountains Data Center Solution met the security, scalability, and interconnection requirements of the customer in this critical global data center market. The lease is expected to commence and begin ramping midyear 2024 and has a term of 15 years. Finally, I would like to share with you a joint ESG and data center win. As we have said before, ESG continues to be an important focus for us, shown through many years of producing annual corporate sustainability reports outlining our commitments and progress for nearly a decade. We recently announced a design certification of our Phoenix Arizona, AZP-2 data center, the first data center in North America to receive BREEAM certification. We are taking the lead on demonstrating the steps facility owners can take to ensure that their data centers are both efficient and resilient. Design for the facility has been certified under BREEAM's new construction standard, a global recognized green building certification for new developments, and achieved the BREEAM excellent rating. This continued focus on building standards, together with already having long-term renewable power purchasing agreements, which offset more than 100% of our data center energy requirements, places us firmly on the path to reach our 2040 commitments to use  a100% renewable energy, a 100% of the time. To conclude, we continue to build on our growth momentum and expand our portfolio to exceed our customer's evolving needs, as evidenced by our outstanding results this morning, including our highest ever revenue and all-time record EBITDA. With our strong footprint, powerful portfolio, and deep customer relationships, we are confident that we will continue this momentum. The future is bright, and I can't wait to see all we can accomplish. With that, I'll turn the call over to Barry.Barry Hytinen -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Bill, and thank you all for joining us to discuss our results. In the first quarter, our team delivered strong performance, exceeding the expectations we provided on our last call. On a reported basis, revenue of $1.25 billion grew 15% year-on-year, with total organic revenue up 10%. Revenue was over $20 million ahead of the expectations we shared on our last call. To me, a key highlight in the quarter is our ongoing organic storage revenue, which grew 6.8% in the quarter, reflecting our strong pricing and data center commencements. Total service revenue increased 33% to $497 million, driven equally by the IT Renew acquisition in our core service offerings. In fact, organic service revenue increased $59 million or 16%, driven by strong growth across our service lines, including digital solutions. As revenue associated with our traditional transportation services was still down 10% from pre-pandemic levels, we are even more pleased with this performance. Adjusted EBITDA was $431 million, up 13% on a reported basis, and a 15% year on year on a constant currency basis. We had strong contributions from revenue growth driven by pricing and data center storage, along with ongoing productivity improvements resulting in EBITDA growth of $50 million. The higher level of EBITDA was despite the impact of the stronger US dollar, and the disposition of the software escrow business last June. Combined, those two items are about $14 million of year-on-year headwind. Partially offsetting those is the recent IT renew acquisition. With solid flow through, first quarter EBITDA exceeded the expectations we shared on our last call by $6 million. Adjusted EBITDA margin was better than we projected, and while it was lower year on year driven by the inclusion of IT renew, our core Iron Mountain business continued to deliver improved profitability year on year, even with investments to fund further growth. AFFO was $264 million or $0.91 on a per-share basis of $29 million and $0.10 respectively from the first quarter of last year. In both cases, we exceeded our expectations. Now let me spend a moment discussing the impact of the war in Ukraine. In late March, we determined it was appropriate to de-consolidate the majority of the OSG records business, which is principally doing business in Russia. As a result, we wrote down our investments to a fair value of zero and accordingly recognized a charge through the other expense line. Going forward, we will no longer be including these entities in our financial statements. Also, in our other expense line, this quarter we have a gain on the Makespace Clutter merger, as I mentioned on our last call. The de-consolidation does not impact our business in Ukraine, which continues to be included in our results. With reduced revenue and a conservative position on accounts receivable, we recognize the loss in our Ukrainian business during the first quarter. I want to echo Bill's comments. We continue to keep all of our mountaineers and their families in our thoughts during this ongoing human tragedy. Now turning to segment performance. In the first quarter, our Global RIM business delivered revenue of $1.04 billion, an increase of $76 million from last year, or 8% on a reported basis. On a constant currency basis, revenue increased 10%. Constant currency storage rental revenue growth of 6.4%, or 4.6% on an organic basis reflects our focus on revenue management and solid volume trends, which exceeded our expectations for the quarter. I will note that in our supplemental financial information, we have shared a reconciliation of our volume with and without the consolidated entities to allow for comparability going forward. Global Rim adjusted EBITDA was $451 million, an increase of $43 million year-on-year. Adjusted EBITDA margin was up 100 basis points year on year, reflecting continued pricing strength and productivity. Turning to our global data center business, we are very pleased with our results. On a revenue basis, we delivered 36% year-on-year growth, or 33% organic growth. A particular highlight for me is the 26% organic storage revenue growth we delivered in the quarter. As Bill discussed, the team has done exceptionally well with new bookings, and with that, we are raising our full-year outlook on new and expansion leasing to 130-megawatts up from our prior expectation of 50-megawatts. Now to provide some historical context to that, we leased 10-megawatts in 2018, 17-megawatts in 2019, 31-megawatts in 2020, excluding our joint venture in Frankfurt, and 49-megawatts last year. With the strength of our performance in the first quarter, we now projected full-year data center revenue growth of at least 20% year on year, with even higher rates of growth for storage. With our strong prior year bookings and recent command commencement, we have very good visibility to revenue. Turning to our corporate and other business, revenue increased 146% year on year, driven by the IT renew acquisition and organic growth in our Crosier business. From modeling purposes, please note that our legacy IT asset disposal business continues to be presented in the Global Rim segment. Total capital expenditures were $150 million, of which $115 million was growth, and $35 million was recurring. In 2022, we now expect total capital expenditures to be approximately $950 million, up $100 million from our prior expectations. This reflects an increase to our data center development capex plans, given our strong leasing year to date and our very positive outlook. Turning to the balance sheet, with strong EBITDA outperformance, we ended the quarter with net lease-adjusted leverage of 5.4 times. This is an improvement from last year, and better than the projection we shared on our last call. As we have said before, we are committed to our long-term range of four and a half to five and a half times. We continue to expect to exit the year at levels within our target range. As you may have seen in March aligned with our growth plans, our team successfully refinanced our credit agreement, which includes a $2.25 billion revolving credit facility, and a $250 million term loan facility. The amendment provides for nearly $550 million of additional borrowing, includes favorable terms, and extends the maturity to March 2027. We want to thank our commercial lending group for their continued support. And with our strong financial position, our Board of Directors declared our quarterly dividend of $0.62 per share to be paid in early July. On a trailing four-quarter basis, our payout ratio is now 69% approaching our long-term target range of low to mid 60%. And now turning to our outlook. We are pleased to reiterate our full year 2022 guidance. I should note that this is despite the impact of the deconsolidation and the stronger US dollar. With the closing of the IT renew transaction, I thought it would be helpful to share our preliminary view on purchase accounting. We currently anticipate amortization of intangibles to be approximately $60 million annually, and with only two months of the risk of results in the first quarter, we amortized that $10 million. Naturally, these charges are included in our adjusted EPS and FFO. Now let me share our expectations for the second quarter. We expect total revenue to be approximately $1.3 billion. We estimate organic growth to be high single-digits to approaching 10% in the second quarter. We expect adjusted EBITDA to be approximately $450 million, and we expect AFFO to be approximately $260 million. The war in Ukraine and the de-consolidation is nearly $5 million headwind versus the second quarter of 2021, and sequentially versus the first quarter of 2022. In summary, our investments are accelerating our growth trajectory. Our customer relationships are strong, our core is performing well, and we continue to realize incremental pricing opportunities across our business. Our focus on higher growth segments, including data center, asset lifecycle management, and digital solutions, are positioning us for continued success. I would like to thank our entire team for their strong contributions. We look forward to updating you on our progress following the second quarter. And with that operator, please open the line for Q&A. 