  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by for Cigna's first quarter 2022 results review. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, ladies and gentlemen, this conference, including the Q&A session, is being recorded. We'll begin by turning the conference over to Mr. Ralph Giacobbe. Please go ahead, Mr. Giacobbe.Ralph Giacobbe -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining today's call. I'm Ralph Giacobbe, senior vice president of investor relations. With me on the line this morning are David Cordani, Cigna's chairman and chief executive officer; and Brian Evanko, Cigna's chief financial officer. In our remarks today, David and Brian will cover a number of topics, including Cigna's first quarter 2022 financial results as well as an update on our financial outlook for the year. As noted in our earnings release, when describing our financial results, Cigna uses certain financial measures, adjusted income from operations and adjusted revenues, which are not determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, otherwise known as GAAP. A reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, shareholders net income and total revenues, respectively, is contained in today's earnings release, which is posted in the Investor Relations section of cigna.com.We use the term labeled adjusted income from operations and adjusted earnings per share on the same basis as our principal measures of financial performance. In our remarks today, we will be making some forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our outlook for 2022 and future performance. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. A description of these risks and uncertainties is contained in the cautionary note to today's earnings release and in our most recent reports filed with the SEC. Before turning the call over to David, I will cover a few items pertaining to our financial results and disclosures. Regarding our results, in the first quarter, we recorded an after-tax special item charge of $37 million or $0.12 per share for integration and transaction-related costs. As described in today's earnings release, special items are excluded from adjusted income from operations and adjusted revenues in our discussion of financial results. Additionally, please note that when we make prospective comments regarding financial performance, including our full year 2022 outlook, we will do so on a basis that includes the potential impact of future share repurchases and anticipated dividends. Also, our full year 2022 outlook assumes that the pending divestiture of Cigna's International life accident and supplemental benefits businesses will close in the second quarter of 2022, but does not assume any impact from other business combinations or divestitures that may occur after today. Finally, I'd like to remind you of our upcoming Investor Day on June 3 in New York City, where we look forward to sharing our strategy and opportunities for sustained success and growth. With that, I'll turn the call over to David. David Cordani -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Ralph. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our call today. We're off to a very good start to the year with the first quarter defined by strong results across both Evernorth and Cigna Healthcare, positive momentum and focused execution all of which are advancing our strategy and driving growth. We're pleased with our performance overall specifically with delivering adjusted EPS above our initial expectations. Today, I'm going to keep my comments relatively brief and focus on some of the key drivers of our performance. Brian will then provide additional details about our financial results and our outlook for 2022, and we'll take your questions. On June 3, we'll host our Investor Day, we will provide a deeper level of insights relative to our strategic vision, the growth profile of our businesses and differentiated drivers that will deliver sustained attractive growth. So let's jump in. In the first quarter, we delivered adjusted revenue of $44 billion and $6.01 of adjusted earnings per share. As a result of our strong results this quarter, we are now raising our full year adjusted EPS guidance, underscoring our view that we will achieve another strong year of performance for our company in 2022. We also remain on track to generate $12 billion in deployable capital for the year and directing at least $7 billion to repurchase our shares. I want to take a minute to thank our team for all their hard work that led disease outstanding results. Our more than 70,000 colleagues in the world are committed to delivering our promise in the market day in, day out. And as a result, expanding our client customer relationships, all of which enables us to grow and deliver strong results for our shareholders. Now let's take a deeper look at Evernorth and Cigna Healthcare platforms and the drivers of their performance. Following an outstanding year of growth in 2021, Evernorth maintained momentum with strong top and bottom line results in the quarter, driven in part by the sustained growth of our Accredo and Scripts specialty pharmacy business, which continues to represent one of the fastest-growing parts of our health service portfolio. The key driver of this performance is the way in which Evernorth is increasingly resonating with a wide range of buyers, including employers, health plans, governmental organizations and healthcare delivery systems. In an environment we're getting people the right care and treatment at an affordable price is of paramount importance. I spent meaningful time over the past few months meeting with a number of our clients and partners, and they consistently point to the attractive breadth and depth of Evernorth's services and expertise. Our clients rely upon these services and expertise to solve the most pressing healthcare needs. For some clients, this means tapping into the strength of our pharmacy services. Others that meet me are behavioral health support. With others, the unique specialty pharmacy expertise of the table. More and more, our clients are seeking our solutions that leverage our broad high-performing portfolio of capabilities. For example, Evernorth recently launched a new provider consult service for patients with cancer. This service leverages our powerful analytics to identify and connect patients to their oncologists, to cancer subspecialty experts and designated National Cancer Institute Centers. And this process enables patients to get access to the latest innovations in research with better health outcomes, lower costs and if -- keeps the patient's care close to home and their family. This service augments our existing suite of oncology solutions, including personalized case management, mental healthcare, financial support services, pharmacy solutions and collaborative partnerships with oncology providers. Additionally, on the strength of our offerings a couple of weeks ago, we announced a new long-term strategic collaboration between Evernorth and Kaiser Permanente. We're drawing utilities across both Evernorth and our Cigna Healthcare platforms in a way that creates new opportunities for serving a broad range of Kaiser's clients and customers. This builds on our successful relationships, for example, with Prime Therapeutics and the Department of Defense, both of which were recently renewed for extended track periods. Finally, it's still early in the 2022 selling season, but we are continuing to see strong demand for our Evernorth services among existing and new clients and additional opportunities to deliver even more value, particularly as we expect more biosimilars to come to market over the coming years, and we are seeing strong retention in our Evernorth portfolio of businesses. Turning to Cigna Healthcare. We delivered a strong start to the year. Our medical care ratio during the quarter was 81.5%, which was better than we had projected. This respect reflects the disciplined and targeted actions we initiated last year to improve our results including implementing new affordability efforts and pricing actions. In U.S. Commercial, we achieved strong membership growth during the quarter with growth across each of our segments. At a time when employers are trying to navigate a complex economic landscape for their businesses and an emotionally taxing environment for their employees, many are turning to us is the right strategic growth partner to improve presenteeism, productivity and health outcomes. Employers tell us that they value the ability of our U.S. commercial teams to partner with them in developing programs that guide employees to the right care at the right place at the right time. Programs supporting them and attracting and retaining talent through strong employer sponsor benefits, programs and services, and programs providing greater predictability in managing financial risk for the companies, while optimizing their cash flow during these uncertain times. Our international business also contributed to our growth during the quarter as it achieved higher customer retention and membership growth levels. We also remain on track with the divestiture of our International life, accident and supplemental benefits business in certain countries to jump. With our sharpened focus on health services, we continue to see attractive opportunities for serving multinational employers, governmental organizations, nongovernmental organizations and the globally mobile population. In our U.S. government business, enrollment was down as expected as we prioritize margin expansion and completed the divestiture of our Texas Medicaid business. We continue to take actions to position our government business for growth in 2023 and over the long term. Now to wrap up. Our first-quarter results are strong. they underscore the momentum we're building as we serve evolving -- the evolving needs of our customers and clients as well as continue to drive growth and margin improvement in our company. We delivered adjusted EPS of $6.01 and we continue to make strategic investments in our business while paying a meaningful dividend and remaining on path to repurchase at least $7 billion of our shares in 2022. With focused execution, we are demonstrating our ability to navigate and lead through this continued dynamic environment for the benefit of all of our stakeholders. And now with that, I'll turn the call over to Brian.Brian Evanko -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, David. Good morning, everyone. Today, I'll review key aspects of Cigna's first quarter 2022 results, and I'll discuss our updated outlook for the full year. As David noted, we are very pleased with our strong start to the year, as first quarter adjusted earnings per share were above our expectations. This performance, combined with our continued momentum give us the confidence to increase our full year adjusted earnings outlook to at least $22.60 per share, representing growth of at least 10% off of our reported 2021 EPS. Looking at the first quarter specifically, some key consolidated financial highlights include adjusted revenue growth of 8% to $44.1 million, after-tax adjusted earnings of $1.9 billion and adjusted earnings per share of $6.01. Regarding our segments, I'll first comment on Evernorth. First quarter 2022 adjusted revenues grew 10% to $33.6 billion, and pre-tax adjusted earnings were $1.3 billion, both in line with our expectations. Evernorth's results in the quarter were driven by strong growth in our high-performing specialty pharmacy business and a continued focus on delivering lowest net cost solutions for our clients and customers. We also continue to make meaningful strategic investments for the expansion of client relationships, as well as a new solution development and digital capabilities. These investments ensure the continued differentiation of our scaled Evernorth businesses, and support the expansion of our Evernorth Care capabilities. Overall, Evernorth continues to perform very well with attractive top and bottom-line growth in line with our expectations. Turning to Cigna Healthcare, which is a reminder, now includes our U.S. commercial, U.S. government and retained international health businesses. We ended the year prioritizing margin expansion having taken targeted pricing and affordability actions during 2021 for impact in 2022. We also expected to drive customer growth in each of our U.S. commercial market segments, and we're pleased with how we started the year. For Cigna Healthcare overall, first quarter 2022 adjusted revenues were $11.4 billion, pre-tax adjusted earnings were $1.3 billion and the medical care ratio was 81.5%. The medical care ratio was better than our expectations in the quarter, primarily due to lower COVID testing and treatment costs. In January, COVID incidence was at its highest level throughout the pandemic, but case counts dropped significantly in February and March. Importantly, even during the January omicron peak, we observed substantially lower severity than earlier in the pandemic and subsequently, lower treatment costs. In total, Cigna Healthcare's earnings exceeded our expectations, driven by the favorable medical care ratio, strong specialty contributions and net investment income on our alternative asset portfolio. Net medical customer growth in Cigna Healthcare was also strong. As clients and customers continue to recognize the differentiated value we bring as a partner through our consultative approach in our innovative solutions. We ended the quarter with 17.8 million total medical customers, growth of 4% or approximately 700,000 customers sequentially. This growth was driven almost entirely by an increase in fee-based customers. Notably, we grew across all of our U.S. commercial market segments and in International health. U.S. government enrollment decreased as expected, inclusive of the divestiture of our Texas Medicaid business. Overall, Cigna Healthcare is off to a strong start in 2022. For corporate and other operations, the first quarter 2022 pre-tax adjusted loss was $117 million. Across the enterprise, we delivered strong first-quarter financial results with contributions across our diversified portfolio. Now with respect to our outlook for full year 2022, our strong start gives us the confidence to increase our full-year earnings per share outlook as I will detail in a moment. At Evernorth, we expect continued strong performance with both top and bottom line growth in line with long-term targets, all while continuing to invest in growth and innovation. In Cigna Healthcare, we expect to continue to grow customers while expanding margins over 2021. We are raising our medical customer outlook to growth of at least 725,000 customers, and reaffirming our 2022 medical care ratio outlook of 82% to 83.5%. For Cigna Healthcare in total, we now expect full year 2022 adjusted earnings of approximately $3.95 billion. Taken as a whole, we are raising our EPS guidance and now expect consolidated adjusted income from operations to be at least $22.60 per share, representing growth of at least 10% over our reported 2021 earnings per share. Now moving to our 2022 capital management position and outlook. We expect our businesses to continue to generate strong cash flows and attractive return capital. In the first quarter of 2022, we increased our quarterly dividend by 12% to $1.12 per share. And year to date, as of May 5, 2022, we have repurchased 7.6 million shares for approximately $1.8 billion. For full year 2022, we continue to expect at least $8.25 billion of cash flow from operations, and to deploy at least $7 billion to share repurchases. We now expect full year weighted average shares of 310 million to 314 million shares, an increase of 2 million shares at the midpoint from our prior guidance, primarily due to our updated expectation for the timing of closing the international divestiture. We now expect this to occur later in the second quarter impacting the timing of our anticipated share repurchase. As a reminder, the financial performance of this business is included within corporate and other operations until the divestiture is complete. Our balance sheet and our cash flow outlook remains strong, benefiting from our highly efficient, service-based orientation that drives strategic flexibility, strong margins and attractive returns on capital. So now to recap. Results in the first quarter were above our expectations, reflecting strong contributions across our diversified portfolio. Evernorth continues to deliver strong top and bottom line growth, in line with our expectations. While Cigna Healthcare has had a strong start to the year, giving us the confidence to deliver on our increased 2022 EPS guidance of at least $22.60. I look forward to continuing to discuss our performance, our strategy and our long-term financial outlook with all of you at our upcoming Investor Day on June 3. And with that, we'll turn it over to the operator for the Q&A portion of the call. 