  OperatorGood morning and welcome to Alliant Energy's conference call for third quarter 2021 results. This call is being recorded for rebroadcast. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Zac Fields, lead investor relations analyst at Alliant Energy.Zac Fields -- Lead Investor Relations Analyst Good morning. I would like to thank all of you on the call and on the webcast for joining us today. We appreciate your participation. Joining me on this call are John Larsen, chair, president, and chief executive officer; and Robert Durian, executive vice president and CFO.

 



 Following prepared remarks by John and Robert, we will have time to take questions from the investment community. We issued a news release last night announcing Alliant Energy's third quarter financial results, updated our consolidated 2021 guidance range and announced our 2022 earnings guidance and common stock dividend target. This release as well as supplemental slides that will be referenced during today's call are available on the Investors page of our website at www.alliantenergy.com. Before we begin, I need to remind you that the remarks we make on this call and our answers to your questions include forward-looking statements.These forward-looking statements are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different. Those risks include, among others, matters discussed in Alliant Energy's press release issued last night and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. In addition, this presentation contains references to non-GAAP financial measures. The reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP measures are provided in the earnings release and our 10-Q, which will be available on our website. At this point, I'll turn the call over to John. John Larsen -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Zac. Good morning, everyone. And thank you for joining us today as we highlight our solid results for the third quarter of 2021. To start us off, I'm pleased to share our narrowed and increased 2021 earnings guidance range of $2.61 to $2.67, which represents a forecasted 12th consecutive year of 5% or greater earnings growth. We are also announcing our 2022 earnings guidance range of $2.65 to $2.79 per share, marking yet another year of forecasted 5% to 7% growth. We understand the importance of delivering consistent returns for our investors and solid operations for our customers. And in keeping with our plan to grow dividends commensurate with earnings growth, I'm pleased to share that our board of directors has approved a 6% increase in our targeted annual common stock dividend to $1.71 per share. In a few moments, I'll turn the call over to Robert to share more details of our excellent third quarter financial results. But before I do, I'll highlight some of our many accomplishments from the quarter. Over the past several weeks, I've been pleased to meet with many investors and continue to share our ESG story. It's been a natural journey for us and a direct outcome of how we deliver on our purpose: to serve customers and build stronger communities. We know that a clear vision and solid execution are very important factors when making investment decisions. We are proud that our progress and results have been recognized by several key ESG rating organizations who rate us near the top of the utility industry. Our top-performing results can be seen on supplemental Slide No. 2. Our recent corporate responsibility report highlights many of our achievements.

 



 We continue to make steady progress, such as our commitment to plant more than one million trees across our service territory over the next decade. Not only will this support our care for the environment value and our carbon reduction efforts, it is also responsive to the impact from the 2020 derecho windstorm that devastated our service territory. In Wisconsin, we celebrated our first community solar project with a public open house and tours in the town of Fond du Lac. The one megawatt solar garden will supply clean energy to up to 1,000 homes and is expected to be operational by the end of 2021. Celebrating this solar garden reflects the community's innovative spirit and passion for clean energy. In Iowa, we are excited to have received IUB approval for our first solar garden. It's expected to be constructed in 2022 at a site near Cedar Rapids. In the third quarter, we also assumed ownership of the Bear Creek, North Rock, Wood County and Grand County solar projects in Wisconsin. Construction has either started or will be started shortly on these projects that totaled 450 megawatts. And here in the fourth quarter, we acquired the Crawfish River project and expect to acquire the Onion River project before the end of the year. With those acquisitions, we will have assumed ownership of all 675 megawatts of solar that was approved as part of our first CA filing in Wisconsin. Two final highlights I'll share are tied to the social side of ESG. In September, we committed $4 million to the Hometown Care Energy Fund to help customers who need financial assistance to help pay their energy bills during the upcoming home heating season. The U.S. Energy Information Administration estimates that Midwest natural gas expenditures will rise by nearly 50% compared with last winter. And while we expect the proactive planning by our energy markets team will keep us in line or below those forecasted increases, we know customers will welcome the additional support from this donation to help them stay on track with their energy bills during this time of increased natural gas demand. And finally, I'm excited to share that with the support of our suppliers and partners, our 15th annual Drive Out Hunger event raised over $400,000, bringing our 15-year fundraising total to more than $5 million. This event has provided over 17 million meals to families in need across our service territory. Combating hunger is one of the focus areas of our charitable foundation and we are proud to partner with our Feeding America food bank partners in Iowa and Wisconsin to help thousands of our customers access nutritious food to strengthen their families. With all the great results from the quarter, I would be remiss in not mentioning that our economic development and customer growth efforts have resulted in our third year in a row of being named a top utility and economic development by Site Selector magazine. Our economic development team in collaboration with local, regional and state partners in Iowa and Wisconsin created more than $900 million in new capital investments and more than 2,200 new jobs across Iowa and Wisconsin. I look forward to meeting with many of you next week at the EEI Financial Conference to share even more about our company, including our clean energy vision, flexible and well-executed capital investment plan, our long track record of consistent financial and operational results and our focus on the well-being of our employees, customers and communities. Thank you for your confidence in Alliant Energy. I'll now turn the call over to Robert.Robert Durian -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone. Yesterday, we announced third quarter 2021 GAAP earnings of $1.02 per share compared to $0.98 per share in the third quarter last year. Our higher earnings year over year were driven by higher revenue requirements due to increasing rate base as well as higher temperature normalized sales compared to the third quarter of 2020. These higher earnings were partially offset by higher depreciation expense and timing of income tax expense. Additionally, in the third quarter of 2020, we recorded a non-GAAP adjustment of $0.04 per share related to a legacy guarantee in our nonutility operations. Through the first nine months of this year, temperatures in our service territory have increased retail electric and gas margins by approximately $0.08 per share. By comparison in 2020, the year-to-date temperature impacts through the first three quarters increased retail electric and gas margins by approximately $0.01 per share. Turning to temperature normalized sales. Our retail electric sales in the third quarter of 2021 were up 4.1% versus last year. The two key drivers for this increase are continued pandemic recovery in year-over-year sales, particularly in the commercial and industrial classes and minimal storm activity this year compared to the third quarter of 2020 when our Iowa territory experienced a derecho windstorm. Through the first nine months of 2021, temperature-normalized electric sales have been better than forecasted, largely due to higher-than-expected demand from residential and industrial customer classes. As John mentioned, last night, we issued our consolidated 2022 earnings guidance range of $2.65 to $2.79 per share. The key driver of the 6% growth in temperature normalized EPS is higher earnings on increasing capital investments, primarily driven by our solar program. The details of our refreshed capital expenditure plans are shown on Slides 5 and 6. Our capital expenditures, net of expected tax equity contributions over the five year period from 2021 through 2025, will total approximately $7 billion or an average of $1.4 billion per year. Our capital expenditure plans continue to be focused on the transition to cleaner energy and strengthening the reliability and resiliency of our electric grid. We continue to make progress on our plans to add 1,500 megawatts of solar energy for both our Wisconsin and Iowa customers and have adjusted our flexible capital expenditure plans to address the current market conditions for solar panels and related project materials. Our plan includes expectations for increasing costs for these solar projects as supply constraints and commodity inflation continue to be prevalent in the solar market. Despite increasing costs, these solar projects remain key elements of our clean energy blueprints and will bring long-term environmental and cost benefits to our customers. In addition to the 1.1 gigawatts of solar previously announced for our Wisconsin customers, our plan includes additional renewables and energy storage in Wisconsin, in part to replace the capacity from a portion of the West Riverside Energy Center that we anticipate will be purchased by our neighboring utilities over the next few years. In Iowa, we recently completed an advanced rate making filing for our announced 400 megawatts of solar and 75 megawatts of battery storage. We plan for 200 megawatts of that solar, plus the battery storage, to be located at the site of the recently retired Duane Arnold Energy Center, leveraging the existing transmission interconnection from the former nuclear plant. This will be our first utility-scale battery storage installation and will be an important complement to our solar generation. Finally, we've also included capital expenditures in the latter part of our five year plan for additional energy storage and renewables, including wind repowering opportunities, to increase our portfolio of cost-effective clean energy sources for our utility customers. Slide 9 has been provided to assist you in modeling the effective tax rates for our two utilities and our consolidated group. We estimate a consolidated effective tax rate of negative 13% for 2021 and positive 6% for 2022. At our Wisconsin utility, we will have returned essentially all of the available excess deferred income tax benefits to our customers by the end of 2021, leading to a higher effective tax rate going forward. At our Iowa utility, our large wind portfolio and the resulting production tax credits will maintain our lower effective tax rate for several more years. The production tax credits and excess deferred tax benefits flow back to customers, resulting in lower electric margins. Thus, the changes in the effective tax rate related to the PTCs and excess deferred tax benefits are largely earnings neutral. Next, I'd highlight our continued focus on controlling costs for our customers. We have met virtually with many of you throughout this year and shared our strategy to reduce O&M over the next few years. This strategy is important as we head into the upcoming winter heating season, with much higher anticipated fuel prices, reminding us that our customers need our continued focus on controlling costs to keep rates affordable. Additionally, while we are not immune to rising commodity prices, we are able to leverage our risk management programs to mitigate the impact of rising natural gas and coal costs on customer bills. Let's move next to our financing plans. In September, we issued a $300 million green bond at WPL to finance renewal projects in Wisconsin. The coupon rate of 1.95% represents the lowest interest rate for a 10-year debenture issued by WPL, helping to support our customer affordability objectives. Our financing plan over the next 14 months includes issuing up to $1.4 billion of long-term debt at our utilities and Alliant Energy Finance. The proceeds from the new debt issuances will be used to refinance existing debt and the redemption of preferred stock and to finance the utilities capital expenditure plans. Our 2022 financing plans also include $25 million of new common equity through our DRIP plan. Lastly, we have included our regulatory initiatives of note on Slide 7. As mentioned earlier, this week, we filed the advanced ratemaking principles for 400 megawatts of solar and 75 megawatts of storage for our Iowa utility. The key details of this filing are outlined on Slide 8. We plan to receive a decision on this filing in the second half of 2022. Looking ahead, this quarter, we expect to receive the written decision regarding our WPL rate review, including the decision on the innovative cost recovery mechanism for the Edgewater Unit 5 coal plant expected to retire by the end of 2022. And in the first half of next year, we plan to receive a decision on our second solar CA filing in Wisconsin. We very much appreciate your continued support of our company and look forward to meeting with many of you during the EEI finance conference next week. Later today, we expect to post on our website the EEI investor presentation and the November 2021 fact book, which details the separate IPL and WPL updated capital expenditures, rate base and construction work and progress forecast through 2025. At this time, I'll turn the call back over to the operator to facilitate the question-and-answer session. 