
OperatorGood morning. Welcome to S&P Global's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] To access the webcast and slides, go to investor.spglobal.com. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to introduce Mr. Chip Merritt, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for S&P Global. Sir, you may begin.Robert Merritt -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you for joining today's S&P Global Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Presenting on today's call are Doug Peterson, President and CEO; and Ewout Steenbergen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We issued a news release with our results earlier today. If you need a copy of the release and financial schedules, they can be downloaded at investor.spglobal.com. Before we begin, I need to provide certain cautionary remarks about forward-looking statements. Except for historical information, the matters discussed in today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projections, estimates and descriptions of future events. Any such statements are based on current expectations and current economic conditions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from results anticipated in these forward-looking statements.In this regard, we direct listeners to the cautionary statements contained in our Form 10-Ks, 10-Qs and other periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, as announced late last year, S&P Global and IHS Markit entered into a definitive merger agreement. In March, shareholders of both companies overwhelmingly voted in favor of the merger. The merger is pending regulatory approval, and we currently expect to close in the fourth quarter of 2021. This call will touch on the merger but does not constitute an offer to sell or buy or the solicitation of any offer to buy or sell any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities law of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of prospectus meeting requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933. In connection with the proposed transaction, S&P Global and IHS Markit has filed a registration statement on Form S-4 with the SEC, which includes a joint proxy statement and a prospectus.S&P Global and IHS Markit have filed other documents regarding the proposed transaction with the SEC. Investors and security holders of S&P Global or IHS Markit stock are urged carefully read the entire registration statement and joint proxy statement prospectus, which is available on our website and sec.gov. In today's earnings release and during the conference call, we're providing adjusted financial information. This information is provided to enable investors to make meaningful comparisons of the corporation's operating performance between periods and to view the corporation's business from the same perspective as management. The earnings release and the slides contain exhibits that reconcile the difference between the non-GAAP measures and the comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP.This call, especially a discussion of our outlook, contains statements about expected future events that are forward-looking and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations can be found in our filings with the SEC and on our website. I would also like to call your attention to a European regulation. Any investor who has or expects to obtain ownership of 5% or more of S&P Global should give me a call to better understand the impact of this legislation on investor and potentially the company. We're aware that we do have some media representatives with us on the call. However, this call is intended for investors, and we would ask that questions from the media be directed to Ola Fadahunsi at (212) 438-2296.

 



At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Doug Peterson. Doug?Douglas L. Peterson -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Chip. Welcome to today's earnings call. At the beginning of the quarter, we knew that the earnings in the second quarter of 2020 had been very strong due to a surge in liquidity-driven investment-grade issuance and from management actions we took to reduce spending to deal with the incredible uncertainty from the COVID pandemic. It's remarkable that the financial results we reported today surpassed those of a year ago. These results don't just happen. Our people make them happen, and I want to thank them all. Now let's turn to our second quarter financial highlights. We reported very strong financial results, with revenue increasing 8% and all four businesses delivering revenue and adjusted operating profit growth. Indices delivered the strongest revenue growth based on the large gains in ETF AUM. Adjusted expense growth was higher than normal at 9% largely due to significant cost controls in the prior period due to the pandemic and increased performance-related incentives this quarter.After raising guidance on our first quarter earnings call, we're raising 2021 guidance again based on these strong results and our expectations for the remainder of the year. Ewout will provide details in a moment. I'd also like to share some additional highlights from the second quarter. The most important initiative of the year continues to be our upcoming merger with IHS Markit. This is an incredibly transformative opportunity for our company and our customers. Momentum for the merger with IHS Markit continues to build. Countless employees from both companies are working together on numerous integration planning work streams. We continue to engage with global regulators in anticipation of closing the merger in the fourth quarter of 2021. While we don't have any new updates on the merger to share with you today, I can assure you that considerable progress is being made. The iconic Dow Jones Industrial Average celebrated 125 years this quarter, and we introduced several new ESG-related products.

 



We'll provide further details on these accomplishments on today's call. And finally, CRISIL named Amish Mehta as the new Managing Director and CEO effective October 1. Amish joined CRISIL as President and Chief Financial Officer in 2014 and assumed his current responsibilities as Chief Operating Officer in 2017. He has over two decades of diverse experience across telecommunications, oil and gas and business advisory services. Amish will succeed Ashu Suyash, who has decided to move on to set up her own venture. Over the last six years, Ashu has led CRISIL's transformation to become a leading, agile and innovative global analytics company. Under her leadership, CRISIL has not only consolidated its ratings leadership position but also grown its global business. Ashu has been at the forefront of the ESG agenda for CRISIL and the launch of several new offerings and platforms in India and the global markets. I'd like to express our deep appreciation of Ashu's leadership and contributions. To recap the financial results for the second quarter, revenue increased 8% to $2.1 billion. Our adjusted operating profit increased 8%, and our adjusted operating profit margin declined 40 basis points to 58.3%.As you know, we measure and track adjusted operating profit margin on a trailing 4-quarter basis, which increased 90 basis points to 54.5%. As a result, our adjusted diluted EPS increased 6%. Each quarter, we highlight a few key business drivers and important projects underway. This quarter, let's start with ratings bond issuance trends. During the second quarter, global bond issuance decreased 9%. In the U.S., bond issuance in aggregate decreased 19% as investment-grade decreased 51%, high-yield decreased 8%, public finance decreased 7%, while structured finance increased 229% due to large increases in every category, particularly CLOs, which increased 580%. European bond issuance decreased 11% as investment-grade decreased 32%, high-yield increased 104%, and structured finance increased 74% with gains in every asset class except ABS. Of particular note were CLOs, which increased more than 300%. In Asia, bond issuance increased 8% overall. The data on this slide only depicts bond issuance. When we include bank loan volumes, overall global issuance decreased 2%. One of the first questions investors ask whenever there is a strong quarter of issuance is how much of this was pull-forward? On this slide, we show the profile of bond maturity data from different points in time.As you can see, the upcoming maturities in the second half of this year and in the next few years have not changed much in the past six months. So despite the flurry of issuance in the last few months, there doesn't appear to have been much pull-forward activity. Since bank loan ratings are an important element of ratings revenue, and they're not included in our bond issuance slide, we like to disclose our bank loan rating revenue each quarter. The bank loan market continues to see strong demand amid the reopening of the economy and the vaccination rollout as potential inflation puts the floating rate asset class in focus. With an incredibly strong CLO market and retail investors continuing to pour money into loan ETFs and mutual funds, the market has easily digested these elevated volumes. In fact, assets at leverage loan funds jumped to an 18-month high at the end of June. All of this has contributed to an unprecedented level of bank loan rating revenue this year, with the first half of 2021 already exceeding all last year. Second quarter revenue was $157 million, more than triple the second quarter of 2020.The next two slides look at the combined high-yield issuance and leveraged loan volume for the U.S. and Europe. Data is not readily available for the rest of the world. This slide shows that the combination of global leveraged loan and high-yield issuance in the first and second quarters of 2021 has dramatically exceeded any quarterly total in the past three years. This slide depicts the combination of high-yield issuance and leveraged loan volume by the use of proceeds of the funds raised. The category with the largest increase in the second quarter was M&A and LBO activity. The leveraged loan market and the CLO market are dependent on one another as many of the leveraged loans end up in CLOs. The CLO market continued at a torrid pace in the second quarter. Investor demand for floating rate investments, their search for yield and the relatively strong CLO performance during the 2020 pandemic have contributed to increased CLO issuance this year. There are not a lot of companies in the world still selling a product they created 125 years ago.But on May 26, 1896, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was launched. Still serving as Wall Street's bellwether, at the end of 2020, $37 billion of ETF AUM was indexed or benchmarked against this iconic Dow Jones Index. At the time of the Dow's introduction, investing in the stock market was considered highly speculative activity. And so in its early years, the Dow achieved little prominence outside of Wall Street. Ironically, it was the market crash of 1929 that brought the Dow's reputation to the attention of everyday investors as the index lost nearly 30% of its value over the course of two days. Before that, investors had been more focused on their individual stocks. But after the crash, investors were more interested in following general market conditions that Dow made that possible. Each year, S&P Dow Jones Indices releases the annual survey of assets. This chart depicts the highlights of that survey for 2020. Asset levels in actively managed funds that benchmark against our indices increased 23% to $11.4 trillion. Assets and passive funds invested in products indexed to our indices increased 17% to $7.5 trillion. Numerous indices support the $7.5 trillion, including the S&P 500, the largest with $5.4 trillion in assets.There are several other notable categories with considerable AUM growth, including sector indices that increased 24%, global indices that increased 62% and fixed income indices, which grew 86%. Just over a year ago, we featured the launch of the S&P Global Marketplace on our earnings call. Today, I'd like to share with you the tremendous reception it has received by our clients. The site currently features 139 tiles of content and solutions, representing all four divisions and Kensho. So far, we have booked 189 deals, and there have been 600,000 page views. We also recently launched Marketplace Workbench in partnership with Databricks, allowing clients access to a modern cloud-based platform for big data testing and analysis. This slide also depicts the most popular categories and the client types with the most active users. Congratulations to all those involved in creating a site that uses unique technology to simplify our clients' ability to identify, access, evaluate and utilize unique data and solutions. If you haven't visited marketplace.spglobal.com yet, I encourage you to do so. Turning to our investments in ESG. We continue to launch new products and grow our ESG franchise across the company.After recording ESG revenue of $65 million in 2020, we delivered revenue of $43 million in the first half of this year, with second quarter revenue increased over 50% to $22 million versus the prior period. With the launch of social and sustainability framework alignment opinions that we introduced on our call last quarter, Ratings now has four products. Overall, Ratings completed 13 ESG Evaluations, 11 Green Evaluations, 16 SAM benchmark engagements and 10 social and sustainability framework alignment opinions in the quarter. Market Intelligence launched electric quarterly reports tracking U.S. power purchase agreements. These provide our clients with broad new insights in how energy revenues and renewable power purchase agreement pricing are trending. Market Intelligence also entered into an agreement to provide Trucost carbon and environmental data to State Street's clients. These clients will access functionality, including mapping carbon footprint and other environmental data portfolios, TCFD reporting features, applying Trucost Carbon's Earnings at Risk, Paris alignment and physical risk data intelligence. We launched a climate credit analytics product in partnership with Oliver Wyman to help banks comply with climate stress testing regulations.And we launched an SFDR data solution that allows firms operating in the European Union to meet newly formed sustainable finance disclosure regulation requirements by drawing on a wide range of ESG data sets from across S&P Global. In Indices, we had $25.8 billion of ESG ETF AUM at the end of the second quarter. This is an increase of 290% since the end of the second quarter of last year. Our Indices business also launched ESG Dividend Aristocrats Index series, partnered with Evolve, for the launch of index ETFs that offset the carbon footprint of stocks and worked with a German federal pension plan that reallocated EUR nine billion of assets to equity indices utilizing our EU climate transition benchmark. Platts began publishing daily carbon credit price assessments, reflecting nature-based carbon credit and household device carbon credit projects that are intended to bring additional transparency to carbon prices and carbon trading activity. Platts launched the world's first daily carbon neutral LNG price assessment, which involves offsetting the carbon emissions through the purchase and retirement of carbon credits. Platts also strengthened its global suite of hydrogen prices with new hydrogen price assessments for the U.K. and a new 2-degree warming scenario to the market-leading global integrated energy model.Let me now turn to our outlook for global issuance and GDP. After issuance growth of 15% in 2019 and 17% in 2020, our Ratings Research Group's prior 2021 forecast called for a decrease of 2%. The latest forecast was issued earlier this week and calls for a decrease of 1% without international public finance. The level of issuance in 2020 remains, in aggregate, hard to beat, but the 2021 total should still come in at a historically high total, likely surpassing 2019. The two largest changes compared to the forecast last quarter include structured finance, which went from a 6% gain to a 20% gain; and nonfinancials, which went from a 7.5% decrease to a 12% decrease. Please note that this is a bond issuance forecast. This is not a revenue forecast. For example, it doesn't address nontransaction revenue and doesn't include leveraged loan activity.The peak of the pandemic appears to be behind us, particularly for the most advanced economies as vaccinations become widely available, severe COVID-19 cases fall and economies reopen. But we still see inevitable fits and starts with COVID risk still elevated. This is happening earlier and faster than previously assumed, driving both growth and inflation. The macro outlook continues to improve. We have raised our global growth forecast by 40 basis points to 5.9% in 2021. This reflects stronger performance across the board in the first half of the year. Our 2022 to 2024 outlook shows a stronger U.S. but lagging emerging markets. Risks are shifting from the pandemic to the pace of the recovery. In particular, rising inflation in the U.S. and some emerging markets points to a possible bumpy transition from the ultra-low rates and easy financing conditions to the post-COVID-19 steady state. And with economies on demand, policy normalization and sustainability are coming into sharper focus. Finally, Platts is forecasting that oil will remain above $65 a barrel through 2021. This is positive for the health of the oil industry.I will now turn the call over to Ewout Steenbergen, who is going to provide additional insights into our financial performance and outlook. Ewout?Ewout Steenbergen -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you. Let me start with our second quarter financial results. Doug covered the highlights of strong revenue and adjusted earnings-per-share growth. I will take a moment to cover a few other items. While there were some modest divestitures since the second quarter of 2020, the revenue associated with them was not large enough to result in a difference between reported and organic revenue growth. Adjusted total expenses increased 9%, and I'll provide some additional color on this in the next slide. Our net interest expense declined 20% due to the refinancing of a substantial portion of our debt last year. The increase in the adjusted effective tax rate was due to an increase in taxes on foreign operations and the successful resolution of tax examinations in the prior year. Our full year tax rate guidance remains unchanged. Our adjusted expense growth during the quarter was larger than normal at 9%.There are several reasons. First, second quarter 2020 expenses were impacted by pandemic-related management actions taken last year. Second, due to strong financial results year-to-date, performance-related costs, including incentives, commissions and royalties, have increased. Third, ForEx increased expenses. Finally, I want to make it clear that our business-as-usual expenses remain under control. During the quarter, changes in foreign exchange rates had a positive impact on adjusted EPS of $0.03. The only meaningful impact was in Ratings, where adjusted operating profit was positively impacted by $15 million. Last quarter, we introduced three new categories to provide insights into the type of expenses that are going to be incurred related to the pending merger. The first category is transaction costs. These are costs related to completing the merger. They include legal fees, investment banking fees and filing fees. The second category is integration costs. These are costs to operationalize the integration.They include consulting, infrastructure and retention costs. The third category is costs to achieve. These are costs needed to enable expense and revenue synergies. They include lease terminations, severance, contract exit fees and investments related to product development, marketing and distribution enhancements. During the second quarter, the non-GAAP adjustments collectively totaled to a net pre-tax loss of $75 million. They included $9 million for merger transaction costs, primarily legal fees; $39 million from merger integration costs, primarily consulting fees; $2 million for cost to achieve; a $3 million lease impairment; and $22 million in deal-related amortization. And there was an after-tax adjustment with respect to the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities related to a U.K. income tax rate change. This quarter, all four divisions delivered increased revenue and adjusted operating profit. On a trailing 4-quarter basis, adjusted operating profit margin increased significantly in Platts and Market Intelligence, while Ratings had a modest gain and Indices had a decrease of 100 basis points. I'll provide color on the individual business results in a moment.Now turning to the balance sheet. Our balance sheet has low leverage and ample liquidity. We have cash and cash equivalents of $5.2 billion, debt of $4.1 billion, an undrawn revolver capacity of $1.5 billion and no commercial paper outstanding. Our adjusted gross debt to adjusted EBITDA improved since the end of last year to 1.8 times. Free cash flow, excluding certain items, was $1.6 billion in the first half of 2021, an increase of more than $100 million or 8% over the prior year period. Due to the pending merger with IHS Markit, share repurchases have been suspended. Now let's turn to the division results. Ratings revenue increased 7% as strong investment-grade comps were more than offset by strength in bank loan ratings, structured finance and nontransaction activity. Adjusted expenses increased 10%, primarily due to increased incentives, salaries and ForEx. These resulted in a 5% increase in adjusted segment operating profit and a 100 basis point decrease in adjusted segment operating profit margin.On a trailing 4-quarter basis, adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 30 basis points to 63.4%. Please keep in mind that the 68.1% adjusted segment operating profit margin achieved in the second quarter is temporarily elevated based on the surge of issuance in high-yield, leveraged loans and structured finance. In China, we see continued momentum and interest in our ratings. We completed 13 ratings in the second quarter and 31 in the first half of 2021 compared to 22 in all last year. Nontransaction revenue increased 19%, primarily due to a more than tripling in new entity ratings revenue, growth in fees associated with surveillance and Rating Evaluation Service revenue that more than doubled due to heightened levels of M&A activity. Investors' search for yields and increased risk appetite continues to enable weaker credits to raise debt. Transaction revenue decreased with a substantial decline in investment-grade bond issuance from last year's record quarter, mostly offset by an increase in bank loan ratings activity, structured finance and high-yield bond issuance. This slide depicts Ratings revenue by its end markets.The largest contributor to the increase in Ratings revenue was the 86% increase in structured finance driven by CLOs, ABS, CMBS and RMBS. In addition, corporates declined 2%, financial services revenue increased 4%, governments increased 5%, and the CRISIL and other category increased 12%. Turning to S&P Dow Jones Indices. The segment delivered 16% revenue growth primarily due to gains in AUM linked to our indices. In the second quarter, adjusted expenses increased 19% largely due to increased incentives, salaries, royalties and new product investments. The adjusted segment operating profit increased 15%, and the adjusted segment operating profit margin decreased 80 basis points to 71.1%. On a trailing 4-quarter basis, the adjusted segment operating profit margin remained strong but decreased 100 basis points to 69.2%. Revenue growth was mixed this quarter. Asset-linked fees increased 28% primarily from gains in ETFs, augmented by smaller gains in mutual funds and insurance and over-the-counter derivative activity. Exchange-traded derivative revenue decreased 20% on reduced trading volumes. The second quarter of last year had elevated volatility related to the pandemic and the stock market recovery. Data and custom subscriptions increased 11%.While the prominence of our U.S. indices is widely understood, we have been partnering with exchanges around the world to expand our international presence. These include relationships with exchanges in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Korea and others.This chart is a new disclosure that depicts the steady progress we are making to grow revenue in these markets. The revenue is split across asset-linked fees and data and custom subscriptions. For our Indices division, over the past year, ETF net inflows were $173 billion, and market appreciation totaled $653 billion. This resulted in quarter-ending ETF AUM of $2.4 trillion, which is 51% higher compared to one year ago. Our ETF revenue is based on average AUM, which increased 56% year-over-year. Sequentially versus the end of the first quarter, ETF net inflows associated with our indices totaled $64 billion, and market appreciation totaled $158 billion. As I just noted, exchange-traded derivative revenue faced a strong comparison. Nevertheless, activity at the CBOE increased in the second quarter, with S&P 500 index options activity increasing 8% and VIX futures and options activity increasing 43%. Activity at the CME equity complex decreased 12%. And here is another new disclosure. You have seen that the revenue from exchange-traded derivative activity can be very volatile from quarter-to-quarter. What I don't think is apparent is the strong underlying annual growth that has taken place.This chart depicts a seven year CAGR of 9%. While the trend line is not perfectly upward sloping, the annual growth is much more consistent than the quarterly figures might suggest. Market Intelligence delivered revenue growth of 8%. More than 1/3 of the revenue growth was from recent product investments, which increased by more than 40%. This was primarily from ESG, 451 Research, Panjiva, S&P Global Marketplace, aftermarket research and SME data. Adjusted expenses increased 6% primarily due to cost of sales and royalties. Adjusted segment operating profit increased 11%, and the adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 100 basis points to 35.4%. On a trailing 4-quarter basis, adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 100 basis points to 33.4%. Looking across Market Intelligence, there was solid growth in each category. Desktop revenue grew 5%. Data Management Solutions revenue grew 13%, and Credit Risk Solutions revenue grew 10%. And now turning to Platts. Reported revenue increased 9%, an uplift over recent quarters. Our core subscriptions increased 9%, including about $2 million in benefits from the timing of contract renewals.It is notable that more than 1/4 of the growth came from new products, including ESG and LNG. Oil prices and commodity prices in general are at a level where most of our customers can profitably operate. Global Trading Services increased 4% mainly due to strong LNG and petroleum volumes, partially offset by lower natural gas volumes. Adjusted expenses increased 10% primarily due to incentives, growth initiatives and commissions, and the adjusted segment operating profit increased 8%. Adjusted segment operating profit margin decreased 40 basis points to 57.9%. The trailing 4-quarter adjusted segment operating profit margin increased 170 basis points to 55.9%. While petrochemicals was the fastest-growing category this quarter, every category delivered meaningful growth. And one final new disclosure. Here, you can see the impressive revenue growth that Global Trading Services has delivered over the past 10 years. While this category is volatile from quarter-to-quarter, it has demonstrated a 10-year CAGR of 18%. We're not providing 2021 GAAP guidance because given the inherent uncertainty around the merger, management cannot reliably predict all the necessary components of GAAP measures.And this slide depicts our adjusted guidance. While we expect that the merger will occur in the fourth quarter of this year, we're providing adjusted guidance on a stand-alone basis. The third column shows our new 2021 adjusted guidance, with all the line items that changed highlighted. We're making these changes because we now expect greater revenue growth primarily due to improved outlooks in Ratings and Indices. Therefore, our revenue guidance is increased from a mid-single-digit increase to a high single-digit increase. Corporate unallocated is decreased by $5 million to a new range of $135 million to $145 million due to less project spending than originally anticipated. Operating profit margin is increased by 40 basis points to a new range of 54.4% to 54.9%. And this results in a $0.40 increase to adjusted diluted EPS guidance to a new range of $12.95 to $13.15. And finally, free cash flow generation has been increased by $100 million to a range of $3.5 billion to $3.6 billion. In conclusion, 2021 is turning out to be a very strong year for the company. All our businesses are delivering solid growth. We continue to expand our ESG product offerings, and we are very excited about the upcoming merger with IHS Markit. With that, let me turn the call back over to Chip for your questions.Robert Merritt -- Senior Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you. [Operator Instructions] Operator, we will now take our first question.