
OperatorGood day, and welcome to Mondelez International First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr. Shep Dunlap, Vice President, Investor Relations for Mondelez. Please go ahead, sir.Shep Dunlap -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us. With me today are Dirk Van de Put, our Chairman and CEO; and Luca Zaramella, our CFO. Earlier today, we sent out our press release and presentation slides, which are available on our website. During this call, we'll make forward-looking statements about the company's performance. These statements are based on how we see things today.Actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties. Please refer to cautionary statements and risk factors contained in our 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings for more details on our forward-looking statements. As we discuss our results today, unless noted as reported, we'll be referencing our non-GAAP financial measures, which adjust for certain items included in our GAAP results.In addition, we provide our year-over-year growth on a constant currency basis, unless otherwise noted. For first quarter results, we're also presenting growth on a two year average basis to provide better comparability given the impact of COVID on 2020 results. You can find the comparable GAAP measures and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations within our earnings release and at the back of the slide presentation.Before I speak to the agenda, I'd like to notify everyone that we have an upcoming investor call on May 26, which follows publication of our annual Snacking Made Right ESG report on May 5. Both Dirk and our Chief Impact Officer, Chris McGrath, will discuss key components of ESG. We'll talk more about our approach, our targets and progress on this call as well as answer your questions. In today's call, Dirk will provide a business and strategy update, then Luca will take you through our financial results and outlook. We will close with Q&A.

 



With that, I'll turn the call over to Dirk.Dirk Van de Put -- Chairman And Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Shep, and thanks to everyone for joining the call today. We had a strong start to the year despite lapping our highest growth quarter in 2020 and Q1 reconfirms that we are emerging from COVID even stronger. Our performance demonstrates that our strategy is working and that we have clear growth opportunities in front of us. We are driving a virtuous cycle and producing a consistent track record of growth.As we continue to deliver on our commitments, we are also strengthening our business by accelerating investments, reshaping our portfolio and simplifying the business while maintaining cost discipline. We are well positioned to accelerate long-term revenue and earnings growth. On slide five, let me walk you through the headlines of our financial results. Top line growth was 3.8%, underpinned by broad-based share gains and excellent execution across all geographies, categories and brands.

 



Our teams around the world delivered amazing results with events like Chinese New Year and Easter being clear standouts. In turn, the strong volume and price-driven top line translated into gross profit dollar growth of 5%, also aided by our emerged stronger cost initiatives. We continue to invest in our brands and sales and marketing capabilities to drive our categories. We also increased working media double digits to support further share gains.And a good business converts top line results into cash. And for the quarter, we generated $700 million, which is the best first quarter since the formation of the company, which continues to enable us for strong capital return to our investors. In summary, our first quarter results leave us well positioned to deliver on our full year 2021 outlook and provide increased confidence that we can accelerate our long-term growth rate. On slide six, let me spend a moment on our track record, which we expect to continue.Q1 top line results marked another quarter at or above our long-term growth algorithm of 3% plus, now averaging 3.8% growth since late 2018. This is happening because we have fundamentally changed our approach to the business. From a focus on costs and profit margins, we have switched to top line growth and profit dollars, which has driven better and more consistent results. Our local first commercial approach enables us to move faster and be more consumer-centric.We have entered a virtuous financial algorithm, which allows us to invest more in the business. And lastly, our incentives are better aligned with an ownership and growth mindset with increased accountability and high-quality outcomes. Beyond Q1 results and 2021 expected outcomes, as shown on slide seven, we believe we are uniquely well positioned to thrive in the years ahead with a long runway of growth opportunities and advantaged growth enablers.First, our core categories are attractive and resilient, demonstrating durable growth and significant headroom for future upside. Second, we believe our growth algorithm and our ability to continue to invest behind strong growth propositions is something that sets us apart from our competition and will continue to result in share gains over the years ahead. Third, we are seizing large opportunities in under-indexed channels like e-commerce and discounters.Fourth, we have significant opportunities to expand in high-growth segments like well-being and premium and in geographies where we have a strong share of one core category but a much lower share of another. And beyond our core categories, we are building strong platforms in high-growth adjacencies such as cakes and pastries or bars. We believe we have distinct advantages that will enable us to seize these opportunities.These include our proven ability to price across the globe, more impactful and high-return marketing, increased investments in our brands, ongoing portfolio reshaping to increase our exposure to incremental high-growth areas of snacking, continued cost improvements to fuel investments and increased business clarity and simplification. On slide eight, you can see the strong progress we have made in Q1 against some of our biggest growth opportunities.Within our core business, we achieved double-digit growth in Cadbury Dairy Milk and high single growth in Oreo. Oreo has been growing at a double-digit CAGR since 2018 as we activate our planned trade group and pursue a $1 billion opportunity over the next three years via geographical expansion and share gains. We also delivered mid-single-digit growth in our local jewels, including strong results from Chips Ahoy! and Tate's in biscuit as well as Cote d'Or and Lacta in chocolate.Continued efforts to revitalize brand messaging, packaging and activations have created a growth engine within a substantial part of our portfolio. Looking at our channel opportunities, the consumer shift to e-commerce continues to accelerate growing 77% on a reported basis in the first quarter with share gains in the U.S., China and the U.K. E-commerce represented approximately 6% of our revenue in Q1.This has not come at the expense of brick-and-mortar, where we continue to drive distribution gains in key emerging markets like China, where we added 120,000 stores in the last quarter or in India where we added 60,000. To put that China figure in context, in China biscuits, we are now in three million stores out of six million that formed the Nielsen universe. So we have a huge headroom.And in gum, we are only in 1.9 million of six million stores, and our leading competitor is in 4.2 million stores. As it relates to the opportunity in high-growth segments, we significantly increased our presence in well-being and premium this quarter with the acquisitions of Grenade, Gourmet Food and Hu. And finally, we continue to expand in close in adjacencies, becoming the lead manufacturer in the U.K. snack bars category with Grenade.Since the launch of our strategy, we have enhanced our portfolio by adding nearly $1 billion in revenue with a number of high-growth platforms, as you can see on slide nine. These acquisitions are driving accelerated growth and have a long runway. Our balance sheet provides a great flexibility and optionality, particularly through our coffee JVs. While we are very happy with the results and prospects of both KDP and JDE, our expectation is to increase our exposure to snacking over time.And in 2020, we sold down our stakes in both with $2 billion of net proceeds to convert into a highly strategic snacking acquisitions. We are also evaluating our developed market gum business to determine the best way forward. Across these initiatives, we are driving clear outcomes in the form of accelerated growth. Next, I will share some additional color on these recent acquisitions and how they'll align with our strategy on slide 10.Our focus has always been to increase our exposure to high-growth segments like premium and well-being, enter geographic wide spaces in our core categories or expand into fast-growing adjacencies. Most recently, we acquired four fast-growing companies. Grenade, the U.K. energy protein bar, the leader that is allowing us to expand our snacking portfolio into active nutrition products. It was a missing piece to become the largest players in the $1.2 billion U.K. snack bar market. Gourmet Food, which is a premium and well-being focused cracker portfolio in Australia.This platform allows us to significantly increase our Australia biscuits business and share. The brand has tremendous growth potential inside and outside of Australia and is a leader in a highly attractive segment. Hu is a premium well-being chocolate-led lifestyle brand that has developed a very strong followership. It is the fastest moving chocolate brand in Whole Foods but currently has limited presence in more conventional retailers, which is a clear opportunity.And Give & Go is an undisputed leader in the large and high-growth in-store bakery segment in North America. It is highly incremental and spans across multiple product forms like cookies, muffins, brownies and cupcakes. It has strong consumer appeal, driven by high-quality freshness and permissible indulgence. This platform is performing very well, and we believe it will yield good revenue and cost synergies.As we have seen with our prior acquisitions of Tate's and Perfect Snacks, these platforms provide leadership positions in new or adjacent categories of increasing relevance with our consumers. Tate's represent large addressable markets, are financially attractive and create new growth path for us. Turning to slide 11 and our sustainability commitments and approach.We believe we can create value by building a sustainable snacking company that is focused on sustainability -- or sorry, sustainably sourced ingredients, minimizing our climate and landscape impact, building a diverse, inclusive and engaged workforce, selling products that meet the evolving snacking needs of consumers and result in zero packaging waste. We are confident that our approach is effective as we prioritize according to where we have the largest impact.We focus on breakthrough solutions, and we collaborate when needed. In closing, our strong start to the year gives us increasing conviction that the steps we are taking to evolve our growth strategies are the right ones and that they will continue to support consistent and profitable growth for many years to come.With that, I will hand to Luca for more details on our financial performance.Luca Zaramella -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Dirk, and good afternoon, everyone. Our first quarter performance was strong across all key financial metrics, building off the strength and momentum of 2020. Revenue grew 3.8% driven by broad-based growth and a healthy balance of price and volume. On a two year average basis, we grew for 5.1%. Emerging market performance was strong with growth of 10% for the quarter and more than 7% on a two year basis.Quarter one marks for emerging markets, a solid come back from the impact of COVID and proves that our geographical footprint is a long-term sustainable competitive advantage. These results include double-digit growth in Brazil, India and China as well as high single-digit increase in Russia. In developed markets, we continue to see solid consumption and are pleased with our performance, given the elevated demand in the previous year quarter.These markets were in positive growth territory for the quarter, while the two year average growth was 4%. Turning to slide 14 and performance by category. Biscuits grew plus 3.4% in Q1 and plus 7.6% on a two year average. Each of our big countries delivered double-digit growth during the quarter, while our large U.S. business posted low single-digit growth against very elevated growth from the previous year. The oil brand once again was a clear winner with nearly double-digit growth.Chocolate grew more than 10% for the quarter with a two year average of 6.5%. Our large chocolate countries such as India, the U.K., Germany, Brazil and Russia all turned in strong results. We are particularly pleased with our Easter performance considering that mobility restrictions are still in place, for instance, in Europe. From a brand perspective, both Cadbury Dairy Milk and Milka grew double digits.Gum & Candy continue to see the impact of restricted mobility. This business declined approximately 16% during the quarter and 8% on a two year basis. Comparisons will become easier as we move into the second quarter, though we are expecting a gradual recovery. Now I'll cover our market share performance on slide 15. We continue to see good share performance.Given the unique impact of COVID on results, we have switched to a two year cumulative four percentage of revenue gaining or holding share as we feel it better depict how we are truly doing. In Q1, we held or gained share in 80% of our revenue. Biscuits and chocolates were the big drivers holding or gaining share in 85% of our revenue base. Gum & Candy held or gained 35%. Notable share gainers included U.S., China and Russia biscuit and Russia and Australia chocolate.It is important to understand that the year-to-date category growth of 3% does not reflect some major channels. Using the same methodology, the two year average category growth rate is approximately 5%, which reflects the elevated demand in Q1 2020, particularly in North America. Now let's review our profitability performance on slide 16. Overall, profitability was strong in the first quarter. We grew gross profit by 5% due to strong volume leverage, productivity and revenue growth management partially offset by some commodity and logistics increases.Operating income dollars increased nearly 13% due to overhead reduction and simplification efforts, which helped offset COVID-related costs of approximately $25 million. Importantly, we continue to invest in our brands to a mid-single-digit investments in A&C, including a double-digit increase in Working Media. Moving to regional performance on slide 17. Europe revenue grew 3.3% in the quarter and 3.8% on a two year basis.The U.K., Germany and Russia all delivered strong results. OI dollars increased 8.6%. North America declined 2.3% in the quarter with a two year average growth of 5.6%. Biscuit posted a low single-digit increase on top of strong double-digit growth in the previous year quarter. While Gum & Candy saw double-digit declines. Our venture business unit, which combines Tate's, Give & Go, Perfect Snacks, Hu and Enjoy Life, grew strongly, both organically and on a pro forma basis.North America operating income declined 3.6% as a result of volume dynamics. as well as some extra cost to serve due to winter storms in February. AMEA posted exceptional growth of 10.8% and a two year average of 6.5%. India delivered extraordinary growth underpinned by great execution and robust consumption in chocolate and biscuit. India growth on a two year average was double digit and higher than pre-COVID rates.China continued to demonstrate momentum with double-digit growth. These results were driven by continuous strength in biscuit. China growth on a two year average was double digits. AMEA operating income dollars grew nearly 37% due to significant volume leverage as well as cost mitigation efforts despite continued working media increases. Latin America grew 7.2% in Q1 and 7.1% on a two year average. Brazil grew double digits, driven by strong market growth in biscuits and chocolate as well as good performance in powdered beverages.Easter was executed well by the team. Mexico and Western India declined mid-single digits due to category softness in Gum & Candy, while biscuit delivered strong growth. Adjusted OI dollars in Latin America grew nearly 10%. Now turning to earnings per share on slide 18. Q1 EPS increased more than 10% at constant currency, driven mostly by operating gains. Moving to cash flow and capital return on page 19.We delivered free cash flow of $700 million in the first quarter, higher earnings, lower restructuring and very strong working capital management with a 10-day improvement in our conversion cycle helped drive these results. We deployed more than $1 billion to repurchase shares at attractive prices during the dislocation in the first two months of the quarter. We also paid out $450 million in dividend, representing an 11% increase versus the previous year.Moving to our outlook on page 21. I would start by saying that we expect the continuation of the same trend and momentum experienced in Q1 going into the rest of the year. Consumers continuing to snack more for both mental and physical well-being, elevated at-home consumption with restriction fluctuating but still present, consumers preferring trusted quality brands and strength in mass retail and higher sustained e-commerce adoption.We also expect vaccination efforts to help gradually unlock mobility over time but remain prudent in our planning for parts of the business that will benefit from this, such as World Travel Retail and gum. Also some markets are reestablishing lockdowns and some uncertainty remains. Our strong start to the year and continued recovery in emerging markets provide an increased level of confidence in our ability to deliver a strong 2021. Having said that, COVID still creates an element of uncertainty and volatility.So we are reaffirming our original 2021 outlook or 3% plus revenue growth. If some of the elements of volatility dissipate in the coming months, we might be in a position to revisit the outlook in our Q2 call. From a profit standpoint, we expect high single-digit growth for EPS. This reflects our current view of top line, some incremental commodity and transportation inflation for the year that despite being higher than originally planned remains manageable.In addition, we will continue investing in the business to propel our virtual cycle. We also continue to expect free cash flow of $3 billion plus. Forex translation is now expected to positively impact our reported revenue by approximately two percentage points and EPS by $0.10 on the year. All the elements of the outlook are based on current conditions and do not factor in a material degradation of the operating environment that could be triggered by a significant worsening of COVID.To sum up, we feel good about where we stand and remain focused on delivering on full year commitments. We are winning share. We are driving a virtual cycle with impactful high-return investments. We are driving leverage in our business and emerging and developed markets are performing well.With that, let's open it up for Q&A.