
OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Holly, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Fortune Brands Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Now, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Dave Barry, Senior Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin our conference call.David Barry -- Senior Vice President, Finance and Investor RelationsGood afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the Fortune Brands Home & Security third quarter 2021 investor call and webcast. Hopefully, everyone has had a chance to review the earnings release issued earlier. The earnings release and the audio replay of the webcast of this call can be found in the Investors section of our fbhs.com website.I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements we make on the call today either in our prepared remarks or in the associated question-and-answer session are based on current expectations and market outlook, and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated. These risks are detailed in our various filings with the SEC. The company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements except as required by law. Any references to operating profit or margin, earnings per share or cash flow on today's call will focus on our results on a before charges and gains basis unless otherwise specified.With me on the call today are, Nick Fink, our Chief Executive Officer; and Pat Hallinan, our Chief Financial Officer. Following our prepared remarks, we have allowed time to address some questions.I will now turn the call over to Nick.Nicholas Fink -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Dave, and thank you to everyone for joining us on the call today. Our teams once again rose to the occasion to deliver an exceptional quarter, driving outperformance while facing tremendous supply chain headwinds, including challenges in labor, freight and material availability. Demand for our products remains very strong and we are working tirelessly to serve our customers, while combating the global supply chain challenges facing most industries. The perseverance shown by our team members across our world-class brands has been nothing short of remarkable. Our third quarter results demonstrate that we can deliver even in the face of significant challenges. We remain firmly on track for a record year with exceptional growth and margin improvement and to reach the long-term goals for Fortune Brands that were communicated earlier this year.For the third quarter company sales increased 20% in total and 14% organically with all segments driving strong growth. This past quarter marked an all-time record in quarterly sales as we near $2 billion. Operating income increased 20% and earnings per share increased 25% incredible results, especially given the current external environment. Demand for our products in the quarter was and remains robust and we expect growth to persist as consumers continue to invest in housing. Our leading brands are well positioned to capitalize on these tailwinds and our teams continue to drive share gains across the portfolio. Our mid-teens organic sales growth was complemented by LARSON, which is exceeding our expectations in terms of both performance and synergies.I'm proud of our team's ability to integrate this asset and drive performance, notwithstanding the challenging supply chain environment. Headwinds from supply chain particularly in labor availability and freight and materials inflation increased both during the quarter and relative to previous expectations. We are addressing these challenges by leveraging our Fortune Brands advantage capabilities and through incremental price. Across the company we are diligently working to be continued strong demand, while keeping our customers served and employees safe. As global supply chains labor and other inflationary pressures all remain dynamic we've updated our 2021 financial guidance, as was highlighted in our earnings press release earlier today. Pat will provide additional detail later in the call.Importantly, we remain on track to achieve exceptional growth and margin improvement in 2021 as well as toward our long-term targets communicated earlier this year. Notwithstanding these external challenges, we continue to increase investment to drive the long-term growth and margin progression of the company. In the quarter, we furthered our strategic agenda and made more than $30 million of incremental investments behind our digital journey, brand, innovation and Fortune Brands Advantage capability, while also delivering an operating margin on par with prior year. These investments were made in addition to the incremental investments made throughout last year.For the full year, we expect to make operating margin progress of around 50 basis points versus a year ago, while continuing to invest in our strategic priorities to drive long-term stakeholder value creation. Our strategies are delivering in this environment and those incremental investments should only accelerate our performance when the current pace of challenges moderates. The company continues to generate high levels of free cash flow and our balance sheet is strong. We are committed to efficient and effective capital deployment by investing in strategic capital projects, executing disciplined M&A transactions and returning dollars to shareholders via dividends and share repurchases. Our leverage remains very healthy and we have plenty of capacity to deploy additional capital for more value creation activities.We recently chose to accelerate capacity investments in Moen and the House of Rohl, Therma-Tru and Fiberon brands and expect excellent returns from these initiatives. Additionally, we repurchased $114 million of shares in the third quarter and our year-to-date share repurchase total currently stands at over $380 million. As the company celebrated its 10-year anniversary of its spin off in public listing in early October, cumulative capital return to shareholders through repurchases alone surpassed $2.5 billion. Importantly throughout our 10 years, we've also worked to serve all of our stakeholders. From developing sustainable innovative products and processes to our best-in-class safety records, to our commitment to advance diversity, equity and inclusion ESG has long been a part of our culture.This past quarter we've made some exciting advancements in our ESG journey and unveiled a new website with an enhanced focus on ESG. We continued to receive recognition for our best-in-class safety record, including multiple awards for the work we do keeping our employees safe. In honor of our 10-year anniversary we announced meaningful partnerships with two outstanding affordable housing organizations. I can't think of a better way to celebrate our milestone anniversary then make this commitment to help make the dreams of home more attainable for many families in our communities. While there is more work to be done, I'm proud of what our team has accomplished.Over the past decade we've proven our ability to execute in any environment and to drive sustainable long-term shareholder value creation. This is possible because of the team of exceptional people across our organization who continue to make it different, putting safety first, going above and beyond to serve our channel partners and customers and operating with a commitment to excellence. They are the flag carriers of our culture, which drive our resiliency and results. Thank you to all who worked so hard each day, standing proudly behind our world-class brands that make an increasingly positive impact on people's homes, safety and communities.Turning to the remainder of our remarks today. First, I will discuss what we're seeing in the home products market. I will then highlight key takeaways from our third quarter and provide additional color on what drove the result. Finally, Pat will provide highlights on our financial results, balance sheet strength and liquidity as well as thoughts around our updated guidance to our financial outlook for the full year.Now, turning to our view on the housing market. Long-term fundamentals for housing and home products remained very favorable. The significant deficit of homes available for sale and the structural under-building that is contributing to the current housing situation has been elongated by increasing labor, supply chain and material availability headwinds. While these challenges have made global headlines and will take time to normalize it will take much longer, years in fact, to work through the significant under-supply up-to-date homes relative to demand.We saw some moderation in the pace of home sales versus Q3 of 2020. We view this moderation is a net positive as it allows for more sustainable long-term expansion of housing products, while still driving very strong demand. Notwithstanding for moderation, demand for our products continued to persist ahead of supply. We will also experienced some rebalancing of demand across channels and between the rebalancing and the very strong but moderating home purchasing market we believe the overall marketplace is on an even healthier footing for long-term sustainable growth than it was this time last year.Within both the new construction and repair and remodel markets we continue to see consumers focusing investment on the home. Demand for larger ticket and pro-oriented projects remains elevated which squarely aligns with much of our product portfolio. These product categories are sold mostly through the trade, wholesale and builder channels and we experienced strong sustained momentum since before the pandemic. With our excellent relationships and preferred positioning in those channels coupled with market leadership for our premium brands we expect this momentum to continue and demand for our products to remain robust.We also saw consumers continue to spend up the price spectrum into premium offerings. We have seen this multi-quarter trend in both Plumbing and Cabinets and I'll also seeing this trend play out within our premium offerings in decking and doors. This sign of continued consumer confidence to invest in the home reflects both the health of the consumer and household balance sheets as well as consumers growing aspirations for what the home can become. Whether it be a new construction or repair and remodel markets, we believe we are optimally positioned to capture accelerated share leverage by the best home product portfolio in the U.S. and have leadership positions in all of our brands.Driven by an advantage set of channel positions, significant growth capital to deploy and supported by our world-class people we could not be more excited about the future. With that market backdrop some thoughts on the recent quarter. We had a stellar quarter even in the face of incremental supply chain headwinds. Demand was robust through the quarter and remain strong today across the whole portfolio. Our teams are working tirelessly to offset the numerous supply chain and labor constraints and we're taking incremental actions to deliver both near-term results and long-term growth and margin objectives. Cumulatively, labor shortages and freight constraints were almost acute pressure points across the portfolio and they are more challenging than even 90 days ago.We are responding with stronger measures in human capital attraction and retention strategies, at the same time we are also leveraging our Fortune Brands Advantaged capabilities to reduce complexity and minimize dependence on labor. We're also utilizing our scale and capabilities in global sourcing and logistics to optimize freight efficiency. We're further developing and deploying our Fortune Brands Advantage capabilities and are funding strategic investments in key growth priorities, including in our digital journey, brand building and product innovation as well as in capacity and distribution expansion. These investments are contributing to our resiliency and as conditions normalize we expect to continue to increase sales and margin allowing for stronger capital deployment and investment, which will drive our perpetual outperformance engine for the long-term.Now, let me turn to our individual businesses and how we're positioning for long-term growth, starting with Plumbing. Our Global Plumbing Group once again significantly outperformed the global and U.S. markets this past quarter, taking share in every geographic region in which we operate. The business continues to fire on all cylinders with sales growth of 26% or 23% excluding FX. A strong Plumbing sales drove operating leverage, resulting in a 22.6% operating margin for the quarter, notwithstanding increased investment in brand, innovation and improved customer service.Our North American wholesale and e-commerce channels delivered strong double-digit growth and we continue to grow in retail despite very elevated comps from the prior year. We are winning share in generating incremental investment dollars to pursue further above market growth and margin. In North America, our Plumbing business has never been stronger. We continue to be an industry leader in both innovation and key metrics and brand awareness, purchase intent and loyalty among customers.Moen continues to lead in innovation and design and push new on trend styles and functionality, including the recently launched Nebia by Moen's by Quattro product line. This cutting-edge shower gives consumers the power to customize their experience, while incorporating the Nebia by Moen's proprietary water saving technology, delivering on our water saving initiatives and ESG strategy. As our business grows, we are also investing in incremental capacity across the supply chain, including a new distribution center opening this quarter.In China, Moen achieved strong double-digit growth as our investments behind the Moen brand, category expansion and innovation continue to resonate the Chinese consumer. Given our broad product offering, diverse channel exposure and increasingly relevant consumer brand, we see continued growth in China despite headwinds from the slowing new construction market. As we've demonstrated in the past, our sales growth was driven by our innovation and category expansion efforts is not tied tightly to the overall market. Additionally, we built the resilient China business with a cost structure that can flex to preserve margin delivery. While we anticipate that there may be interim slowing of that marketplace, we are well equipped outperform as we did during the last slowdown in 2017.Finally, the House of Rohl sales grew very strong double-digits in all regions, momentum in the luxury category has remained robust, and we expect demand to continue consumers' willingness to invest and spend into larger ticket R&R remain significant. To keep up with this demand, we recently approved an investment to modernize and add capacity to our House of Rohl manufacturing facilities.Turning to Outdoors & Security, sales increased by 30% and operating margin was 15.6%. Organically, sales increased 6% and were impacted by the very elevated comps due to the shift in sales from Q2 to Q3 last year in doors and decking as our channels reopened following COVID shutdowns. Material and labor availability headwinds increased in the third quarter and continue to impact operations across all brands, including material shortages caused by Hurricane Ida. Our teams are hard at work to offset these challenges, which have restrained us from achieving targeted output.Doors delivered mid single-digit sales growth in the quarter, reflecting constraints in labor and materials and very elevated comps due to the shift in sales from Q2 to Q3 last year as our channels reopened more fully after COVID shutdowns. Adjusting for the shift, sales increased mid-teens. Production interruptions are key component suppliers caused by Hurricane Ida affected supply in the quarter, but we work diligently across our supply chain to resolve these challenges going forward. Underlying demand remained strong across channels and we continue to work to service our customers at a high level.Turning to decking, Fiberon sales grew mid single-digits off of a very strong quarter last year that also included the shift of sales from Q2 to Q3 due to channel reopening. Adjusting for 2020 shipment cadence, sales increased to around 20%. Our strategy of leveraging our deep customer relationships to partner with the leading distributors in each region continues to pay dividends as we remain in a sold-out position. We will be bringing incremental capacity online before year-end and we expect fourth quarter sales growth to eclipse 25%. We continued to leverage Fortune Brands Advantage capabilities and other internal synergies to increase output and streamline costs. Our ecofriendly composite decking continues to resonate with consumers and remains in high demand as we take additional share from traditional with decking.As I mentioned earlier, integration of LARSON continues to progress well and the business is performing above expectations. Our teams across Outdoors & Security are working together to advance integration or capturing planned synergies. Finally, within security, we experienced continued success and momentum with high single-digit sales growth in the quarter as commercial, back to school and travel markets continued to rebound. Our key North American retail market for both Locks and Safes continues at levels stronger than prior to the start of the pandemic. The business is delivery on the Fortune Brands Advantages investments made over the last couple of years and is now generating incremental fuel for reinvestment.Now, turning to Cabinets. Our Cabinets operations again delivered strong performance in the past quarter with sales growing over 9% and operating margin of 9.7%. In an extremely tough environment sales grew sequentially after the strong Q2 and margins performed at industry-leading levels. Demand was equally strong on both the stock and make to order with the strongest momentum continuing in our premium offerings. While labor challenges, material and freight inflation increased further all are manageable and we continue to take price and deploy continuous improvement initiatives to offset these headwinds.Cabinets margin performance in such a challenging and fast evolving environment is a testament to how well our pivot plan and Fortune Brands Advantage capabilities are delivering. As the pace of challenges moderates and our pricing actions take further hold the business will accelerate its progress toward its long-term margin objective. Labor shortages and freight availability remain the biggest challenges impacting performance in margins in our Cabinets business. Our teams are deploying lean methodologies and complexity reduction strategies to ease the supply chain and labor limitations.Significant order backlog exists across the business and will be worked through into 2022. We remain committed to our long-term margin goals for Cabinets and the business simplification progress that we made this year within our facilities will prove beneficial as we continue to solve our labor challenges and price realization catches up during the fourth quarter and into early 2022.In summary, we continue to see very strong demand for our products and believe the housing cycle has being further elongated by current short-term acute headwinds. We're very focused on overcoming challenges and delivering in the short-term and we have built this company and its strong culture to win for the long term. Our commitment to excellence, each other and our brands leveraged by innovation, investment, and most importantly, purpose drives everything that we do. Our products positively impact to people's lives every day and we do not take that for granted. We are committed to growing stronger together and we'll do so in a sustainable way.As we near the end of 2021 and look to 2022 and beyond the actions that we are taking now and the investments that we're making and expect to make in the future should drive above market growth and a stronger margin profile. We have a strong balance sheet and the ability to deploy a significant amount of capital over the next few years. We're excited about the housing market and for the future of our company. We will remain steadfast in our mandate to create value regardless of the environment.With that, I will turn the call over to Pat who will speak to our financial results and updated guidance. Pat?Patrick Hallinan -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Nick. And as a reminder, the majority of my comments will focus on income before charges and gains in order to best reflect ongoing business performance. Additionally, all comparisons will be made against the same quarter last year unless otherwise noted. Let me start with our third quarter results.Sales were $1.99 billion, up 20%. Organic sales, excluding the LARSON acquisition, were up 14%. Consolidated operating income for the quarter was $293 million, up 20% or $49 million and total company operating margin was 14.8%, in line with the prior year period. EPS were $1.49 for the quarter, up 25%. These results reflect our teams' tremendous performance in a highly disruptive environment, a testament to our culture of safety and outperformance across the organization.Now, let me provide more color on our segment results, beginning with Plumbing. Sales for the third quarter were $741 million, up $151 million or 26% or up 23% adjusting for FX. Our Plumbing business continues to gain share and drive growth across all major brands, channels and geographies. Plumbing operating income increased 36% to $168 million, operating margin for the quarter was 22.6% despite significant investment during the quarter in our brands, strategic priorities and to serve our customers.Turning to Outdoors & Security, sales for the third quarter were $528 million, up $122 million or 30%, driven by the addition of LARSON and mid single-digit organic growth. On an organic basis, sales were up 6% against an elevated comp from the shift of sales from the second quarter to the third quarter last year in doors and decking as our wholesale channels reopened following the COVID shutdowns these channels experienced. Door sales were up mid single-digits in the third quarter, driven by wholesale and would have been up mid-teens adjusting for the shift of sales from the second quarter to the third quarter in 2020. Reported results would have been even stronger within the quarter were not for labor and material constraints, the latter of the result of Hurricane Ida.Decking sales were up mid single-digits in the quarter as Fiberon continued to sell out. Sales were up around 20% adjusting for the shift in sales from Q2 to Q3 last year. We expect incremental capacity to come online in the fourth quarter and are also increasing throughput by deploying process improvement. We expect fourth quarter decking sales growth to exceed 25%. Security sales continue to trend nicely with high single-digit growth in the quarter, driven by returning strength in commercial, back to school and travel markets.Outdoors & Security operating income was $82 million during the quarter, up 24% driven by the addition of LARSON and operating improvements in decking and security. Segment operating margin decreased 80 basis points to 15.6%, primarily driven by inefficiencies caused by labor and material constraints in the quarter, impacting doors and decking.Turning to Cabinets, sales for the third quarter were $717 million, an increase of over 9% over the same quarter in 2020. We again saw strong demand across all price points during the quarter. Backlogs and lead times have extended during the quarter and demand for contractor-led projects such as Cabinets remains very healthy. Operating income in the third quarter was $69 million, down 13% or $11 million. Operating margin for the quarter was 9.7%, down 250 basis points versus the same period a year ago as price increase realization, trailed inflation and labor and material availability resulted in inefficiencies. We expect this relationship to improve significantly during the fourth quarter.By the first quarter of 2022, we expect continuous improvement in pricing actions to offset inflation fully and our rate of margin enhancement in Cabinets to reaccelerate to our targeted objective. We remain well positioned to win in North America versus domestic competitors and imports. We expect to win increasing share and achieve our long-term margin objectives.Before turning to the balance sheet and updated financial guidance, some thoughts on demand, supply and the current environment. Demand continues to be strong across the portfolio. Increasing headwinds from labor, freight availability and certain supply constrained materials are being addressed. We are and expect to stay nimble as the situation warrants. We have made significant investments to serve continued strong demand and to increased service levels. We are also making further progress in deployment of our Fortune Brands Advantage capabilities to leverage synergies across the portfolio in sourcing and other improvement initiatives.We are keenly focused on the current dynamic environment contributing toward rising COGS and freight inflation. The decisive actions we are taking will allow us to offset fully these headwinds, maintain our long-term margin trajectory and will put us in an advantage position for 2022. Through a combination of continuous improvement and thoughtful pricing actions we plan to offset all inflationary headwinds during the first quarter of 2022 and to continue to target around 75-plus basis points of margin improvement during 2022.Turning to the balance sheet. Our balance sheet remains strong with cash of $461 million, net debt of $2.2 billion and our net debt to EBITDA leverage is now 1.7 times. We ended the third quarter with approximately $410 million of available capacity on our revolver. We are advantageously positioned to deploy capital to the highest returning opportunities. Year-to-date, we have repurchased over $380 million of shares and have repurchased over $2.5 billion in common stock in 10 years as a public company. Our investment grade balance sheet and strong free cash flow provide fuel for continued investment into our businesses, propelling the flywheel of outperformance on the top line and accelerating common capability building and deployment across our portfolio to achieve higher margins.I would now like to address our updated market and financial outlook. Demand for our products remains strong in a sound housing market. However, increasing headwinds from labor shortages, supply chain challenges and inflation have adjusted our expectations for full year 2021. Based on the expectation that the global market for our products will now grow 11% to 12% with the U.S. housing market growing 12% to 13% and within this forecast we now expect U.S. new construction growth of 11% to 12% and U.S. R&R growth of 13% to 14%. Based on these assumptions, our revised 2021 full year sales growth outlook is expected to be 24.5% to 25.5% or 17.5% to 18.5% on an organic basis.We continue to target meaningful margin progress and expect to deliver around 50 basis points of margin improvement during 2021 despite inflation that is almost 3 times what we expected at the beginning of this year. We are tracking to our longer term margin objectives, demonstrating our ability to accelerate value creation regardless of the environment. We now expect full year EPS within the range of $5.63 to $5.73 on a before charges and gains basis, of which the implied midpoint equates to earnings growth of 36% over our record year in 2020.Specifically, our outlook for each business as it relates to our updated guidance includes, Plumbing that sales growth of 24.5% to 25.5% with operating margins at or above 22.5%, Outdoors & Security net sales growth of 43% to 45% or 14% to 16% excluding LARSON with segment operating margins of 14.5% to 15% or approximately 100 basis points higher adjusting for purchase accounting, Cabinets net sales growth of 14% to 15% with operating margins between 10% and 11%.We expect 2021 free cash flow of approximately $625 million to $675 million, which includes additional investments in working capital to improve service levels and capacity to accelerate growth. We anticipate a cash conversion rate of 80% to 85%. The revised full year EPS outlook includes the following assumptions. Corporate expenses of about $108 million to $110 million, interest expense of approximately $83 million to $86 million, a tax rate of approximately 23% and average fully diluted shares of approximately 139 million to 140 million.While short-term market challenges persist, we have the talent and capabilities to manage and offset these headwinds and we'll continue to adjust quickly to the dynamic environment as merited. We delivered a record year in a challenging 2020 and we'll deliver a record year again in 2021. We are doing the hard work and making the critical investments necessary to outperform the market and to achieve our margin objectives. You can count on us to capture value and effectively manage the business regardless of the speed bumps along the way.I will now pass the call back to Dave to conclude our prepared remarks.David Barry -- Senior Vice President, Finance and Investor RelationsThanks, Pat. That concludes our prepared remarks on the third quarter. We will now begin taking a limited number of questions.I will now turn the call back over to the operator to begin the question-and-answer session. Operator, will you please open the line for questions. Thank you.