
OperatorGood morning, my name is Erica, and I will be your conference facilitator today. I would like to welcome everyone to the Goldman Sachs First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being recorded today, April 14, 2021. Thank you Ms. Miner, you may begin your conference.Heather Kennedy Miner -- Head of Investor RelationsGood morning. This is Heather Kennedy Miner, Head of Investor Relations at Goldman Sachs. Welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call. Today, we will reference our earnings presentation, which can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.gs.com. No information on forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures appear on the earnings release and presentation. This audiocast is copyrighted material of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and may not be duplicated, reproduced or rebroadcast without our consent.

 



Today, I'm joined by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, David Solomon; our Chief Financial Officer, Stephen Scherr; and Carey Halio, our incoming Head of Investor Relations, who will host this call beginning in July. Carey most recently served as the firm's Deputy Treasurer and CEO of GS Bank USA and began her career in credit risk as a bank analyst. She brings 22 years experience at Goldman Sachs to her new role. As I leave this seat to assume the role of COO of our Asset Management business, I want to extend my sincere appreciation to each of you for your partnership over the years.On the call today, David will start with a high level review of our first quarter performance and our client franchise. He will also provide an update on the operating environment and macroeconomic backdrop. Stephen will then discuss our first quarter results in detail. David and Stephen will be happy to take your questions following their remarks. I'll now pass the call to David. David?David M. Solomon -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks Heather, and thank you everyone for joining us this morning. Before I begin my remarks, let me thank Heather for leading the firm's Investor Relations effort for the past four years and welcome Carey to the role. I will begin on Page 1 of the presentation with a summary of our financial results. In the first quarter, we produced record net revenues of $17.7 billion. The strength and breadth of our client franchise continue to be evident as we delivered net earnings of $6.8 billion, record quarterly earnings per share of $18.60, and a return on equity of 31% and a return on tangible equity of 32.9%, the highest in over a decade.

 



Our first quarter results underscore the ongoing strength of our franchise and the supportive environment which we operated during the quarter. These results also evidence our successful execution toward the firm's strategic priorities. We maintained our leading global positions across M&A and equity underwriting. We delivered the best performance in Global Markets in a decade with strength in FICC and equities driven by solid client activity across our platform and reinforced by last year's market share gains. In Asset Management, we recognized significant net gains across our public and private equity positions, and we continue to harvest on-balance sheet investments in our efforts to transition the business to more third-party assets, where we are making progress in raising funds across a range of investing strategies.In Wealth Management, we continue to provide valuable advice to our ultra-high net worth PWM clients while we further scale our personal financial management business. And in Consumer, we continue to make strong progress on our vision to create the leading digital consumer banking platform. This quarter, we launched Marcus Invest in the US, our digital investment offering, which provides consumers access to diversified investment portfolios with as little as a $1,000 investment. The customer response and uptake since launch has been positive and we are focused on scaling the platform. We're also working toward the launch of digital checking in the US and Marcus Invest in the UK. Importantly, we maintained a resilient and highly liquid balance sheet as we continue to deploy our resources to support clients amid an evolving and dynamic market backdrop.With that, let me turn now to the operating environment on Page 2. As anticipated, we saw improvement in the macroeconomic backdrop during the first quarter, which was supported by the continued accommodative fiscal and monetary policies of central banks and governments around the world. At this stage, it is clear to me that the US is poised for a strong recovery this year, led by consumer spending that is rebounding to pre-COVID levels. This sentiment is reflected in the capital markets with US equities hovering at or near records and bolstered by recent US employment data and our economists' forecast on GDP growth. Despite these positive developments, we recognized that the operating backdrop will undoubtedly evolve and that much of the global economic recovery will depend on the progress around COVID-19. While the rollout of vaccines is well under way in the US and the UK, distribution has been challenged in a number of other countries around the globe and the prospect of new variants add to potential concerns around the trajectory of the economic recovery. As you would expect, we remain vigilant to risks across markets. We are mindful of elevated valuation levels across certain asset classes, increased volatility in certain single name stocks and are aware of the inflationary risks inherent in the actions being taken to stimulate continued growth in the economy.Let me now also take a moment to share my views on a few important topics where I've been fielding questions from clients and other stakeholders. First, on the events related to Archegos Capital. This was the case of an investor with highly concentrated and leveraged positions. This is not the first time we've seen a situation like this and it likely won't be the last. We have robust risk management, the governance, the amount of financing we provide for these types of portfolios. Our risk controls, all of which were put in place long before the March events, worked well. We identified the risk early and took prompt action consistent with the terms of our contract with the client. I am pleased with how the firm handled it and it's a reflection of the engagement and communication of teams across Goldman Sachs, both in the business and on the control side of our firm. These events raised reasonable questions around market practice and transparency, they are worthy of debate, and we intend to play a constructive role in that dialog.

 



Next on specs, we continue to believe that providing sponsors a mechanism to access public markets for capital formation is an innovation that's here to stay. However, as a meaningful participant in this market, we will continue to be thoughtful regarding the transactions we underwrite with a particular focus on the quality of sponsors, sponsor economics, investor protections and disclosure. We believe the industry should evolve on these important issues in the interest of more efficient and transparent markets.I also want to touch on the topics of cryptocurrency, blockchain and the digitization of money. As activities in these areas progress, there will be significant disruption and change in the way money moves around the world. Many central banks are looking at digital currencies and working to apply this technology to the local markets and determine the longer term impact on global payment systems. There is also significant focus on cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin where the trajectory is less clear as market participants evaluate their possibility as a store of value. At Goldman Sachs, we continue to look for ways to expand our capabilities to support our clients' needs and evaluate applications to improve our organizational efficiency. Of course, we need to operate within the current regulatory guidelines. For example, we cannot own Bitcoin or trade it as principle. Goldman Sachs will play a role in these innovations as they are important to our clients and important to the future of global financial systems. Another topic coming up in stakeholder conversations is sustainability. We remain steadfast in our commitments to sustainable finance. Central to our purpose as an organization, our programs are commercially attractive and utilize our expertise and capital to support all of our stakeholders. During the quarter, we issued our first sustainability bond where we raised $800 million, the proceeds of which will be allocated toward initiatives aimed at accelerating climate transition and advancing inclusive growth. We also launched One Million Black Women, an initiative that I am very proud of and through which the firm will commit $10 billion in direct investment capital and $100 million in philanthropic capital for capacity building grants over the next decade to narrow the opportunity gaps for black women in the United States. Separately, we also committed an additional $500 million to Launch With GS, our program designed to invest in diverse-led companies and fund managers, bringing our total commitments to $1 billion.Finally, I want to take a few minutes to comment on our people. I continue to hear from clients that the quality and dedication of our people is one of our great differentiators. The firm's quarterly results are a product of our client focus and the dedication of the employees of Goldman Sachs, day in and day out, notwithstanding the challenges that they have all faced as we mark one year into the COVID-19 pandemic, our people have rallied to the needs of our clients. I would like to thank my colleagues around the world, I'm in awe of their performance and of our results this quarter due to their hard work, dedication and our culture of teamwork. It will always be a priority for our firm to attract and retain the best talent to serve our clients and execute on our strategy. We have a vibrant partnership and a deep bench of talent across the organization. Many will spend their entire career with us, some will even become clients of the firm. This is a virtuous ecosystem that has been in place for decades. It is also aligned with the evolution of our partnership strategy where we're working to continue to make the partnership more aspirational.I recognize there is an enormous amount of discussion about how companies will operate their businesses post-pandemic. For Goldman Sachs, our people operate at their best when they are forging close bonds with colleagues and furthering the apprenticeship culture that has defined us. We have found the best way to do that is to work together in person on a regular basis. Let me be clear, achieving the objective of bringing our colleagues back to the office is not inconsistent with the desire to provide our people with the flexibility they need to manage the personal and professional lives which is the way we have always run this firm. Given the experience of the past year, I'm more confident than ever in our ability to facilitate this approach going forward. Over the course of the past few months, we have been welcoming thousands of colleagues back to the office in a manner consistent with safety guidelines in each city in which we operate. We have implemented testing and other protocols across our offices to make for a safer work environment and to provide those returning to the office with a sense of confidence in the return. Importantly, I look forward to increasing number of employees returning as vaccination programs around the world expand and we welcome new joiners to the firm's offices this summer.Regarding our junior bankers and others in the organization who have been working tirelessly to support our clients and at times have been overburdened, I've been passionate about the experience of our junior people throughout my career as you can now see from our results client activity is extraordinarily high and I fully appreciate how busy our people have been. This has been exacerbated by the isolation of working remotely in a COVID-19 environment. To address this, we are taking concrete actions including additional hiring, reallocating resources and pursuing stricter enforcements of boundaries. In this 24/7 connected world, we have to help those transitioning into the workforce to understand that Goldman Sachs is a place where we work very hard to serve our clients but all need to be thoughtful about personal resilience and well-being.In closing, I'm very pleased with how our people delivered for our clients and drove attractive returns for our shareholders. I'm confident in the state of our client franchise and the progress we are making as we execute our strategic priorities. With that, I will turn it over to Stephen.Stephen M. Scherr -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, David, and good morning. Let me begin with our summary results on Page 3. During the first quarter, the firm's performance reflected meaningful strength across all four of our business segments. In Investment Banking, clients remained very active in raising capital, particularly in the equity markets, and we witnessed high levels of M&A activity amid elevated strategic dialogs. In Global Markets, we saw strength across all products and regions as client engagement remained high. In Asset Management, record performance was attributable to gains from our equity investments, particularly as we harvested private equity positions in an attractive market. We also saw double-digit revenue growth year-over-year in our Consumer and Wealth Management segment for a third consecutive quarter, as we further expand our wealth capabilities and scale our consumer offering.Turning to specific business performance on Page 4, let me begin with Investment Banking. Investment Banking produced record quarterly net revenues of $3.8 billion, up 73% versus a year ago. Financial Advisory revenues of $1.1 billion rose 43% versus last year on increased transaction closings in the quarter. During the quarter, we maintained our Number 1 league table position as we participated in over $400 billion of announced transactions, over $100 billion ahead of our next closest competitor and closed over 100 deals for approximately $300 billion of deal volume.The bigger headline in Investment Banking again this quarter was equity underwriting where we generated a record $1.6 billion in revenues, over four times greater than the levels a year ago. We ranked Number 1 globally in equity underwriting with our volumes climbing to nearly $50 billion across roughly 240 deals, including over 90 initial public offerings for companies across all markets like Coupang in Korea, InPost in Poland, and Bumble in the US. Our equity underwriting market share increased more than 60 basis points during the quarter, largely driven by improved share in IPOs. We experienced strong activity this quarter in follow-ons and new products, including our participation in a growing number of SPAC transactions.In debt underwriting, net revenues were $880 million, up 51% from a year ago driven by strong activity levels, particularly in leverage finance and asset backed transactions. In addition, our engagement with sectors impacted by COVID including airlines and hospitality was high. Notwithstanding the significant realization of revenue in the quarter, our investment banking backlog ended the quarter at record levels with sequential growth supported by sustained M&A activity as well as replenishment from underwriting transactions. Revenues from corporate lending were $205 million, down 54% versus the first quarter of last year, which included significant gains on hedges maintained with respect to our relationship loan book. Revenues in the quarter reflect net interest income including from transaction banking and fees from relationship lending, partially offset by approximately $85 million of losses on hedges as spreads tightened modestly.Moving to Global Markets on Page 5. Our franchise exhibited broad-based strength across businesses in both FICC and Equities. Net revenues were $7.6 billion in the first quarter, up 47% versus a year ago and the highest since 2010. During the quarter, we benefited from a supportive market making environment and facilitated considerable client activity.Turning to FICC on Page 6. First quarter net revenues were $3.9 billion, up 31% versus a year ago, driven by a 36% increase in intermediation where we experienced healthy client flows and demonstrated strong risk management and grew revenues in four out of five businesses versus last year. In Mortgages, revenues rose significantly bolstered by solid results in agency mortgages and residential loans and high levels of client engagement as the business continues to diversify its revenue across market making, loan origination and financing. In commodities, higher year-on-year performance was driven by solid inventory management across products amid volatile markets and healthy client flows. In rates, revenues rose amid strong risk management and client engagement, particularly on the back of anticipated fiscal activity in the US and diverging central bank actions during the quarter. In credit, revenues were up versus a year ago as the business benefited from continued improvement in credit spreads, while client activity remained healthy amid robust primary issuance. We also saw increasing volumes related to our automated bond pricing engine and growing activity in electronic trading. In currencies, revenues fell due to lower activity versus a strong quarter a year ago, though client engagement remained high across both the G10 and emerging markets franchises.Turning to Equities, net revenues for the first quarter were $3.7 billion, up 68% versus a year ago, as we deployed our balance sheet to support clients and intermediated risk with discipline. Equities intermediation produced net revenues of $2.6 billion, up 69%, reflecting the global scale and breadth of our client franchise and aided by elevated client volumes across cash and derivatives as well as strong risk management. In cash, we facilitated client flows across high and low touch channels and executed a number of block trades for clients during the quarter. In derivatives, we produced record results as we saw solid activity in flow and structured transactions across both the US and Europe. Equities financing revenues of $1.1 billion were the best in over a decade, rising 65% year-over-year. Average balances in our prime business grew to record levels as we supported clients amid the volatility and market events of the first quarter. As we continue to grow our prime business, we are well aware of the risks inherent in that business and the resources, including liquidity that are consumed. While we avoided losses related to recent events involving Archegos Capital, as David noted, the situation underscored the potential risks of the business and the corresponding importance of our risk infrastructure and control systems.As to forward expectations for global markets, it remains difficult to predict client activity. While we do not expect the pace of activity in the first quarter to necessarily persist for the balance of the year, we believe the high levels of primary issuance, the current trajectory of economic recovery and diverging Central Bank policies, particularly in emerging markets, could continue to support elevated client activity. Our confidence on the forward of Global Markets rests largely on the market share gains generated last year through a deepening of client relationships and our ongoing investment in technology platforms to enhance client experience and drive efficiencies. As we have noted previously, this progress has improved the structural return profile of the business independent of the wallet opportunity.Moving now to Asset Management on Page 7. In the first quarter, we generated record revenues of $4.6 billion. Management and other fees totaled $693 million, up 8% versus a year ago, driven by higher average assets under supervision, partially offset by fee waivers on money market funds. Incentive fees of $42 million were lower versus the strong year-ago quarter. Equity investments produced $3.1 billion of net gains, including appreciation across our public investments and marks related to event-driven activity in our private equity portfolio such as sales or capital raises. More specifically, on our $3 billion public equity portfolio, we had gains of roughly $340 million. This quarter, we disposed of over $1.5 billion of positions given attractive market conditions. Despite the quantum of public positions sold in the quarter, the more moderate decline in the size of our portfolio reflects the impacts of IPOs in our private portfolio and market appreciation. Across our $17 billion private equity book, we generated gains of nearly $2.6 billion from various positions, more than two-thirds of which were driven by events relating to the underlying portfolio companies including fundraisings, capital market activities and outright sales.Additionally, we had operating revenues of $225 million related to our portfolio of consolidated investment entities. We announced or closed on dispositions of private assets of $1.5 billion in the quarter, bringing the total private sales since our 2020 Investor Day to $4.7 billion. There is an implied $2.3 billion of capital associated with those assets. Additionally, we have line of sight on nearly $3 billion of incremental asset sales. Despite these actions, and as I mentioned on our January earnings call, we increased the equity attributed to Asset Management as a result of our 2020 CCAR stress test. This change was driven by our dynamic capital attribution methodology which takes various regulatory constraints into consideration. On the forward, a continued reduction in balance sheet positions will produce a more meaningful impact on attributed equity reduction. Importantly, we remain on track to achieve our net reduction in segment capital, consistent with what we presented at our 2020 Investor Day to below $18 billion by 2024.The ongoing harvesting of our investment portfolio is consistent with our strategy of migrating our business to third party versus on-balance sheet investing and attractive market valuations have accelerated some sales. We are keen to continue such activity as it would be capital accretive to the firm. That said, dispositions at attractive levels now will diminish gains from sales in forward quarters. We are mindful of that trade-off and are working to offset the revenue impact in subsequent years as we look to realize increasing fee income from the number of alternative funds being formed and invested. Finally, in Asset Management, net revenues from lending and debt investment activities were $759 million on revenues from NII and gains on fair value debt securities and loans. This reflected modestly tighter credit spreads on our portfolio of corporate and real estate investments.Let me now turn to Page 8 where we show the composition of our Asset Management balance sheet consistent with the information that we have provided to you in prior quarters. Our equity and CIE portfolios remain highly diversified by sector, geography and vintage, and our debt investment portfolio is also diversified with loans in this segment largely secured.Moving to Page 9, Consumer and Wealth Management produced $1.7 billion of revenues in the first quarter, up 16% versus a year ago. Management and other fees of $1.1 billion rose 12% versus last year, reflecting higher assets under supervision which rose 25% to $637 billion. Consumer banking revenues grew to $371 million in the first quarter, up 32% versus last year, reflecting higher credit card loans and deposit growth.Next, let's turn to Page 10 for our firmwide assets under supervision and firmwide management and other fees. Total AUS increased to a record $2.2 trillion during the quarter, up over $380 billion versus a year ago. The sequential increase of $59 billion was driven by $37 billion of long-term inflows and $23 billion of liquidity inflows. Our total firmwide management and other fees grew by 11% versus the first quarter of 2020 to $1.8 billion.On Page 11, we addressed net interest income and our lending portfolio across all segments. Total firmwide NII was $1.5 billion for the first quarter, higher versus a year ago, reflecting an increase in interest earning assets and lower funding costs. Next, let's review loan growth and credit performance across the firm. Our total loan portfolio at quarter end was $121 billion, up $5 billion sequentially, driven by residential real estate warehouse and Wealth Management lending. In the first quarter, provision for credit losses reflected a net benefit of $70 million. This includes a reserve reduction, driven by improvements in the broader economic backdrop and loss expectations, partially offset by portfolio growth including approximately $180 million in provisions related to the pending acquisition of loan receivables as part of our credit card partnership with General Motors expected to launch by year-end.Next, let's turn to expenses on Page 12. Our total quarterly operating expenses were $9.4 billion. While our ratio of compensation to revenues net of provisions to fell 34% from 41% in the first quarter of last year, compensation expense increased, reflecting strong performance. Non-compensation expenses were up only 5% versus last year as an increase in transaction-based and technology expenses was largely offset by a decline in litigation and travel and entertainment expenses, as well as lower expenses related to our consolidated investment entities. Overall, our efficiency ratio for the quarter was 53.3%, reflecting the operating leverage in our business. We remain focused on our expense discipline in a pay for performance culture, as well as our expense initiatives where we continue to evaluate additional opportunities for further savings. Our effective tax rate in the quarter was 18%, primarily reflecting the impact of equity-based compensation of approximately $175 million. As noted previously, we expect our tax rate under the current tax regime to be approximately 21%. I should note that we continue to monitor the impact of various proposals being made in the US on the federal and state level.Turning to our capital levels on Slide 13. Our common equity Tier 1 ratio was 14.3% at the end of the first quarter under the standardized approach, down 40 basis points sequentially. The decline was driven by increased lending and higher market RWAs as we stepped in to serve clients, partially offset by strong earnings. In the quarter, we returned a total of $3.15 billion to shareholders including common stock repurchases of $2.7 billion and approximately $450 million in common stock dividends. Our book value per share rose to a record $250.81. While the Federal Reserve has extended the limitations in place on share repurchases and dividend increases, we nonetheless expect to continue our repurchase plans in the second quarter close to the levels of the first quarter and will evaluate an increase to the dividend as permitted.Turning to the balance sheet, total assets ended the quarter at $1.3 trillion, 12% higher versus last quarter as we supported client activity. We maintained high liquidity levels with our global core liquid assets averaging nearly $300 billion. On the liabilities side, our total deposits rose to $286 billion, up $26 billion versus last quarter. Notably, consumer deposits surpassed $100 billion during the quarter. Our long-term debt rose by $6 billion, driven by $20 billion of benchmark issuance. Given the growth in our balance sheet outside of bank entities, particularly due to accretive deployment opportunities in our prime business, we now expect benchmark issuances to be modestly higher than maturities and redemptions this year.In conclusion, our first quarter results reflect the diversification and strength of our client franchise. We remain confident that execution of our strategic priorities will continue to drive a better client experience, more durable revenues and strong returns for shareholders.With that, we'll now open up the line for questions.