
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Baxter International's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Clare Trachtman, Vice President, Investor Relations at Baxter International. Ms. Trachtman, you may begin.Clare Trachtman -- Vice president, Investor RelationsGood morning, and welcome to our first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Joining me today are Joe Almeida, Baxter's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Jay Saccaro, Baxter's Chief Financial Officer. On the call this morning, we will be discussing Baxter's first quarter 2021 financial results and full year 2021 financial outlook. Please note, starting this quarter, the financial schedule, which breaks out sales by key product categories, will now include the sales of our BioPharma Solutions contract manufacturing unit. Historical schedules reflecting this new structure, along with the supplemental presentation to complement this morning's discussion can be accessed on our website in the Investors section under Events & News. This presentation includes related non-GAAP reconciliations. With that, let me start our prepared remarks by reminding everyone that this presentation, including comments regarding our financial outlook for the second quarter and full year 2021, new product developments, business development and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks, and uncertainties, and of course, our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more detail concerning facts that could cause actual results to differ materially. In addition, on today's call, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website. As mentioned in our press release this morning, during the first quarter, Baxter strengthened its European and global pharmaceutical portfolio with the acquisition of the rights for certain territories outside the U.S. to the widely prescribed chemotherapy medication, Caelyx, also known as Doxil in several geographies, including the U.S. This strategic acquisition, which closed on February 17 this year, supplements Baxter's previously existing U.S. rights to Doxil, which the company acquired in 2019. As a result of this acquisition, on the call this morning, we will be discussing operational sales growth, which adjusts for the impact of foreign exchange as well as the international sales of Caelyx and Doxil.Now I'd like to turn the call over to Joe. Joe?Jose (Joe) E. Almeida -- Chairman, President And Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Clare. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining today's call. I hope that you and your loved ones are healthy and safe. I'll begin with an overview of Baxter's first quarter performance. Jay will take a closer look at the financials, including our outlook for Q2 and the year as a whole. Then we'll close with Q&A. Baxter delivered first quarter sales growth of 5% on a reported basis and 1% on both a constant currency and operational basis. This represents solid performance in the face of an unprecedented pandemic as well as a challenging year-over-year comparison, given the heightened sales we experienced a year ago as our customers prepared for the impact of COVID-19. On the bottom line, first quarter adjusted earnings per share of $0.76 declined 7%. This decrease reflects the negative year-over-year impact of COVID on our results in the quarter. On a segment basis, Asia Pacific delivered growth of 8% at constant rates. This growth reflects the strength across the region, while much of the region is progressing in its recovery. We continued to monitor the situation in India, which is experiencing the highest COVID infection rates around the world.Sales results in the EMEA were flat year-over-year and declined 1% in the Americas, also at constant currency rates. Sales in both of these segments continue to be impacted by lower rates of hospital admissions and surgical volumes due to the pandemic. Looking at performance by business. Acute therapies led growth across all of our product categories, with sales increasing 28% on a constant currency basis. Results were driven by ongoing heightened demand globally for Baxter's continuous renal replacement therapy or CRT technology amid COVID-19. As we discussed last year, we expect acute therapies demand to receive from its pandemic peak and return to more typical levels over the course of the year. Our BioPharma Solutions business advanced 11% year-over-year on a constant currency basis, driven by our partnerships to assist in manufacturing the COVID-19 vaccines. Renal Care, Clinical Nutrition, Pharmaceuticals all grew at low single digits at constant currency. Growth in Renal Care continues to be driven by demand for our peritoneal dialysis or PD products globally.I would point out that demand for both our in-center HD and PD businesses has been dampened by the past patient volumes driven by higher mortality rates for ESRD patients in the wake of the pandemic. We expect the ESRD patient volumes to stabilize and return to normal over the next 18 to 24 months, but the pace of their recovery may vary by market. PD growth is expected to continue outpacing HD growth marketwide for the foreseeable future beyond the general lifestyle benefits of home-based PD. This therapy continues to be recognized as a bio treatment option amid pandemic conditions. In addition, the new CMS end-stage renal disease treatment choices or ETC payment model went into effect in the U.S. at the start of the year, which supports expanded access to home therapies. HD will remain a critical treatment option in numerous markets. As a pioneering dialysis broadly, Baxter is committed to innovation across both modalities, enabling clinicians and patients to make the right treatment choices based on their distinct needs.Last quarter, I highlighted the FDA's 510(k) clearance of our HOMECHOICE CLARIA APD cycler as one more way we are supporting PD growth in the U.S. More recently, we received 510(k) clearance of our leading-edge AK 98 hemodialysis system, a proven platform that is currently used in more than 90 countries worldwide and now launching in the U.S. Growth in our Clinical Nutrition business reflected demand from Baxter's multi chamber nutritional product offerings in the U.S. and APAC markets as well as nutrition compound growth in EMEA. Pharmaceuticals growth was driven by continued strength in our international pharmacy compounded business as well as the benefit from the recent acquisition of Caelyx, Doxil rights in select territories outside the U.S. This acquisition further strengthens our Pharmaceuticals portfolio globally and, in particular, represents a platform to accelerate growth in Europe. Adjusting for the Caelyx and Doxil acquisitions and foreign exchange Pharmaceuticals declined low single digits year-over-year. Performance in the quarter reflects a challenging comparison to the prior year quarter, which occurred before in mark the decline in hospitalization to surgical volumes due to the pandemic, intended with heightened sales as hospitals stocked up on few supplies as the pandemic emerged.Medication delivery and advanced surgery both declined mid-single digits at constant currency rates as these businesses were also impacted by lower rates of hospitalizations and surgical procedures as well as the challenging comparison to the prior year quarter. That said, we're seeing gradual steady recovery in this trend. I expect this to continue over the course of the year, particularly as the rate of COVID vaccinations improves globally. In medication delivery, we are also excited by the potential of our NOVUM IQ infusion platform, including our Dose IQ Safety Software and IQ Enterprise Digital Connectivity Suite. NOVUM IQ was resubmitted for FDA 510(K) clearance earlier this month. We look forward to advancing this application and anticipate introducing this exciting technology to the U.S. in the second half of this year. We also remain committed to broadening our presence globally for NOVUM IQ and currently expect to introduce this platform in Europe in 2022 as we work to enhance our product offering to address the specific needs of this region. As I wrap up, I would like to reinforce the Baxter is both well prepared and well positioned for the future.The essential nature and durability of our portfolio, the breadth and diversity of our product lines, our expansive geographic footprint and the impact of our transformation, all taken together, fuel our resilience, adaptability and agility. We remain focused on advancing innovation, the key to sustained growth in any industry. We have a lot to look forward to across our businesses, including new therapeutics and increasingly new value-added digital solutions. You may hear about many of these at our upcoming investor conference and some even sooner. And to supplement our organic pipeline, we will continue to pursue attractive BD opportunity in our core portfolio in key adjacencies as well as complements our business. And our 50,000 employees remain absolutely dedicated to advance in our mission for patients, and we are committed as ever to returning value to our shareholders.Now I'll pass it to Jay for a deeper dive into our financials and outlook.James (Jay) Saccaro -- Executive Vice President And Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Joe, and good morning, everyone. As Joe mentioned, we're pleased with our first quarter performance, particularly in light of the ongoing pandemic conditions and a tough comparison to first quarter 2020, where we experienced tightened demand for select products as COVID-19 began to spread to the U.S. and other geographies. The strength and resilience of our portfolio continues to be on display, and we are executing on the priorities we've set out. As Joe mentioned, this quarter, we resubmitted the FDA 510(k) filing for NOVUM IQ, our suite of next-generation infusion pumps is a promising multiyear growth driver for Baxter. Additionally, in line with our strategic objective, we bolstered our pharmaceuticals portfolio with the acquisition of rights to select territories outside the U.S. that will allow FOR future growth, particularly in our EMEA regions, and we continue to execute on recent new product launches across our businesses and geographies. Turning to our first quarter 2021 results. Global sales of $2.9 billion advanced 5% on a reported basis, 1% on a constant currency basis and 1% on an operational basis.For the quarter, we estimate that COVID negatively impacted year-over-year sales growth by approximately 400 basis points. Sales growth in the first quarter did exceed our expectations driven by operational strength and the benefit from COVID vaccine manufacturing-related revenues. Also, the recent acquisition of Caelyx/Doxil contributed approximately 45 basis points to growth in the quarter. On the bottom line, adjusted earnings declined 7% to $0.76 per share as the negative impact from COVID on our business and operations as well as increased interest expense and a higher tax rate more than offset operational growth in the quarter. Now I'll walk through performance by our regional segments and key product categories, starting with our three regional segments. Sales in the Americas declined 1% on both a constant currency and operational basis. Sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa were flat on a constant currency basis and declined 1% on an operational basis. And sales in our APAC region advanced 8% on both a concurrency and operational basis. Moving on to performance by key product category.Note, for this quarter, constant currency growth is equal to operational sales growth for all global businesses with the exception of our Pharmaceuticals business, for which we will provide both constant currency and operational growth, adjusting for the acquisition of rights and select territories outside the U.S. for Caelyx/Doxil. Global sales for Renal Care were $922 million, advancing 2% on a constant currency basis. Performance in the quarter was driven by global growth in our PD business. We continue to monitor the impact of excess mortality among ESRD patients and delays in new patient diagnosis resulting from the pandemic. This is particularly notable in select Latin America markets, which saw patient volumes decline mid-teens during the quarter. Our current expectation is for PD patient volumes to ramp over the course of the year, although as Joe mentioned, the pace of recovery will vary by market and be further impacted by the rate of COVID vaccinations. Longer term, we remain excited about the trajectory for our Renal care business, in particular, with our leading portfolio of home therapies. Sales and medication delivery of $652 million declined 6% on a constant currency basis.The sales decline reflects a difficult comparison to the first quarter 2020, where we experienced tightened demand for certain medication delivery products and hadn't yet felt the full impact from the lower rate of hospital admissions and surgical procedures. During the quarter, we estimate that U.S. hospital emissions were down high single digits as compared to pre-COVID levels. Pharmaceutical sales of $552 million advanced 1% on a constant currency basis and declined 2% on an operational basis. OUS sales of Caelyx/Doxil contributed approximately $13 million for the quarter. Pharmaceutical performance in the quarter was also negatively impacted by the Q1 2020 pre pandemic buy-in for select products as well as lower rates of hospital admissions and surgical volumes. With sales of both inhaled anesthetics and specialty injectables declining high single digits, excluding the benefit of the Caelyx/Doxil acquisition. Strength in our international pharmacy compounding services partially offset this impact. Moving to Nutrition. Total sales were $234 million, increasing 3% on a constant currency basis. Performance in the quarter was driven by increased demand for multi chamber bags and nutrition compounding products in EMEA.Sales in advanced surgery were $217 million, declining 6% on a constant currency basis. Sales within the quarter were impacted by lower surgical procedure volumes as well as a difficult year-over-year comparison as the first quarter of 2020 included a benefit of approximately 600 basis points, resulting from competitor product shortages. Although surgical procedures experienced a slow start to the year. We expect quarterly sequential improvement and anticipate ending the year with procedure volumes approximately flat to pre-COVID levels. Sales in our acute therapies business were $207 million, representing growth of 28% on a constant currency basis, driven by ongoing COVID-related demand. As Joe mentioned, we anticipate this demand will slow as vaccination rates increase and COVID-related admissions decline. As mentioned, beginning this quarter, we are disclosing sales associated with our BioPharma Solutions contract manufacturing unit, which was previously presented in our other category. First quarter sales in BioPharma Solutions were $135 million, representing growth of 11% on a constant currency basis. Performance in the quarter was driven by revenues generated from manufacturing COVID-19 vaccines on a contract basis.We are honored to play a role in helping meet global demand for COVID-19 vaccines. Moving through the rest of the P&L. Our adjusted gross margin of 42% declined by 230 basis points over the prior year, driven by lower sales of high-margin products and increased operations and supply chain expenses resulting from COVID. Adjusted SG&A of $609 million increased 3% on a year-over-year basis and was flat on a constant currency basis. Adjusted R&D spending in the quarter of $128 million increased 4% on a reported basis and was also flat on a constant currency basis. Both adjusted SG&A and R&D reflect the continued benefit from lower discretionary spending amid the pandemic. The adjusted operating margin in the quarter was 17%, a decrease of 180 basis points versus the prior year. Net interest expense was $34 million in the quarter, an increase of $13 million compared to the prior year, driven by increased interest expense from higher outstanding debt balances as well as decreased interest income due to lower interest rates. Other nonoperating expense totaled $5 million in the quarter. The adjusted tax rate in the quarter was 16% and was favorable to our expectations, driven primarily by a discrete tax benefit recognized in the quarter.We had expected this benefit to occur later in the year. Let me conclude my comments by discussing our outlook for the second quarter and full year 2021. For full year 2021, we expect global sales growth of 8% to 9% on a reported basis, 5% to 6% on a constant currency basis and 4% to 5% on an operational basis. This assumes a benefit of approximately 100 basis points to both reported and constant currency revenue growth for the acquisition of Caelyx/Doxil as well as approximately 300 basis points of positive top line impact from foreign exchange on reported growth. Our expectation remains that on a full year basis, hospital admission rates and surgical procedures will stay below pre-COVID levels with rates improving throughout the year and exiting the fourth quarter with admissions down low single digits and procedures roughly flat. Moving down the P&L, we now anticipate adjusted operating margin to expand between 40 to 60 basis points, reflecting the strong first quarter performance and the inclusion of the Caelyx/Doxil OUS rights.We expect this benefit to be partially offset by increased supply chain and manufacturing-related costs, given the increase in commodity pricing and freight transport as well as a negative impact from foreign exchange. For the year, we expect an average adjusted tax rate of approximately 18% and a full year diluted average share count between the range of 510 million to 515 million shares. Based on these factors, we expect 2021 adjusted earnings, excluding special items, of $3.47 to $3.55 per diluted share. Specific to the second quarter of 2021, we expect global sales growth of 14% to 15% on a reported basis, 8% to 9% on a constant currency basis and 7% to 8% on an operational basis. And we expect adjusted earnings, excluding special items, of $0.72 to $0.75 per diluted share.With that, we can now open up the call for Q&A.