  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Las Vegas Sands' third-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Thank you. I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Mr. Dan Briggs. Sir, the floor is yours.Dan Briggs -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator. Joining me on the call today are Rob Goldstein, our chairman and chief executive officer; and Patrick Dumont, our president and chief operating officer. Also joining us on the call are Dr. Wilfred Wong, president of Sands China; and Grant Chum, chief operating officer of Sands China. Before I turn the call over to Rob, please let me remind you that today's conference call will contain forward-looking statements that we are making under the safe harbor provision of federal securities laws. The company's actual results could differ materially from the anticipated results in those forward-looking statements. In addition, we may discuss non-GAAP measures. A definition and a reconciliation of each of these measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the press release.Please note that we have posted supplementary earnings slides on our Investor Relations website. We may refer to those slides during the Q&A portion of the call. Finally, for those who would like to participate in Q&A session, we ask that you please respect our request to limit yourself to one question and one follow-up, so we might allow everyone with interest the opportunity to participate. Please note that this presentation is being recorded. With that, let me please turn the call over to Rob. 

 



Rob Goldstein -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Dan. Good afternoon, and good morning to our colleagues in Asia, and thank you for joining our call today. I'll provide some brief comments, and we'll go to the Q&A. Our results continue to reflect the pandemic impact, heightened restrictions directly impacted our results in both Macao and Singapore this quarter, we did generate positive EBITDA for the quarter in both markets, and we remain confident in the eventual recovery in both Macao and Singapore. Singapore gaming operations were closed for a portion of the quarter, enhanced restrictions were in place throughout the remainder of the quarter. The good news in Singapore is the travel corridors are being established with a number of source markets which hopefully will contribute to the strong recovery over time. Our considerable investments in Macao continue to take shape. As the market recovers, we believe the Four Seasons in London will present growth opportunities in the future. The spending in Macao has proven both resilient at the premium mass level from both a gaming and a retail perspective, you see on Page 29 and 30 in your deck, and we have great optimism about our ability to perform to a pre-pandemic level once visitation does return. Our company is divided into three areas. Most importantly the Asia portfolio in Macao and Singapore. We remain confident we'll return to a strong positive cash flow in both Macao and Singapore in the future as restrictions are eased and travel and tourism recover.

 



 The sale of our Las Vegas assets creates liquidity and optionality as we pursue large-scale land-based destination resorts in both the U.S. and Asia. We will continue to build out our digital presence and we're exploring multiple opportunities we'll face at the appropriate time in the future. So, thanks for your time again today. Let's go to the questions. Dan?Dan Briggs -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Operator, ready to go. 