
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Labcorp Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your host today, Chas Cook, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Chas Cook -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you, operator. Good morning, and welcome to LabCorp's Second Quarter 2021 Conference Call. As detailed in today's press release, there will be a replay of conference call available via telephone and Internet. With me today are Adam Schechter, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn Eisenberg, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.This morning, in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.labcorp.com, we posted both our press release and an Investor Relations presentation with additional information on our business and operations, which include a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call. Additionally, we're making forward-looking statements.These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the estimated 2021 guidance and the related assumptions, including the projected impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the company's businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition, our responses to and the expected future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business more generally as well as on general economic, business and market conditions.Each of the forward-looking statements is based upon current expectations and is subject to change based upon various factors, many of which are beyond our control that could affect our financial results. Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and in the company's other filings with the SEC. We have no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.Now I'll turn the call over to Adam Schechter.Adam H. Schechter -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Chas, and good morning, everyone. It's a pleasure to be with you this morning. We remain committed to using our extensive diagnostics and drug development capabilities to advance our mission of improving health and improving lives around the world. Innovation, technology and science remains at the forefront of all we do to benefit patients, providers and shareholders. To that end, the second quarter of 2021 was very strong across both Diagnostics and Drug Development.Revenue totaled $3.8 billion, a 39% increase from the same period in 2020. Much of this growth was driven by the continued strength in our base businesses. Adjusted EPS reached $6.13 versus $2.50 from the prior year. Free cash flow was $390 million in the quarter versus $272 million in 2020. The strong performance in the quarter and the improved outlook for the year resulted in us raising full year guidance for revenue, EPS and cash flow. Glenn will review the new guidance with you in a moment.Our base business continued to recover and grew 51% and 32% for Diagnostics and Drug Development, respectively. The Drug Development trailing 12-month book-to-bill remained strong at 1.41. This performance was driven by patients and providers returning to routine healthcare checkups and pharmaceutical clients resuming their important research activities at an even faster pace than expected. I'll now turn to the company's continued response to the pandemic.Our organization's collective strength and scale have allowed us to play a substantial role in the fight against COVID. Although much progress has been made, it is clear that there's still a lot of work to do in the U.S. and around the world. Labcorp remains vigilant and stands ready to help wherever and however we can as we have since the earliest days of the pandemic. To date, Labcorp has performed over 50 million COVID tests. In the quarter, a steady decline in positive cases drove an overall decrease in COVID testing with an average of 54,000 PCR tests per day.The month of June was lower than the quarter average. However, testing started to increase again in recent weeks. We continue to monitor developments in the United States and around the world and are watching the Delta variant closely. To support the CDC in tracking and monitoring the Delta and other variants, this quarter, we announced an extension to our contract to provide genetic sequencing from positive PCR test samples.It is difficult to predict exactly what COVID testing demand will look like for the remainder of the year as variants continues to spread and we enter the flu season. Therefore, we will maintain our ability to scale testing capacity quickly and expand access for communities and individuals in need. At the same time, our drug development teams continue to be involved in many studies on potential vaccines and treatment for COVID around the world.Our new automated clinical trial kit production facility in Belgium is up and running, which will double our automated kit production capacity over time. This will allow us to better serve our pharmaceutical clients and study investigators in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Other COVID-related actions this quarter include the collaboration with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to raise awareness of monoclonal antibody therapies.And at state and local levels, we expanded notable partnerships in places like Massachusetts and North Carolina to facilitate mass vaccination programs and expand access to at-home test collections for underserved populations. In addition, we continued our collaboration with Walgreens. Pixel by LabCorp test kits are now available in 6,000 Walgreens stores and through on-demand delivery services like DoorDash and Instacart. Importantly, our scientists use data available through our robust testing infrastructure to contribute to essential research.In the quarter, we released the results of one of the largest COVID-related studies of its time, which analyzed the tests of more than 39,000 patients. This offered useful detail on the body's reaction to natural infection as we work to learn more about the nature of the immuno response. We are also building upon our portfolio of serology testing, including semiquantitative analysis and T-cell memory.We remain proud of our significant contributions to extending the spread of COVID and in the development of treatments and vaccines, all of which are intended to assist people to safely go back to work and normal life activities. Now I'll provide updates to our strategy. We are focused on leveraging our industry-leading positions to drive growth, enhance customer and patient experiences and advance science and healthcare. We seek to intensify customer focus and integrate data and digitalization across our business.As part of that objective, we announced plans to add a state-of-the-art bioanalytical laboratory in Singapore, expanding our global drug development offering and elevating our client experience through faster turnaround times in Asia. In the United States, we continued to improve our patients' experience in our service centers, focusing our efforts to create a seamless digital journey through appointment scheduling to result delivery. With an average of three million patients served in a given week, we are excited to enhance their experience using our digital channels.In the first half of the year, users of our website totaled $22 million, a 20% increase over last year. And adoption of our patient application is growing approximately 300,000 users per month. I'll now turn to oncology. We made significant strides for the quarter in oncology led by highly trained multidisciplinary team. We launched several new oncology tests, including OmniSeq INSIGHT, a pan-cancer tissue-based sequencing test for patients with advanced solid tumor cancers.The test specific to an individual's molecular and immune profile provides clinical decision support that helps medical professionals identify the most appropriate treatment options for a patient as well as to identify potential eligibility for clinical trials. We also launched a companion diagnostic test to identify patients with non-small cell lung cancer who are eligible for a new treatment option developed by Amgen. This important test helps physicians identify patients who may benefit from the treatment promoting personalized precision medicine.Our work in oncology has created meaningful business relationships across the healthcare ecosystem that we will continue to enhance and grow. An important opportunity presented itself with OmniSeq, a longtime oncology partner and a pioneer in solid tumor profiling. As announced today, we recently exercised our option to acquire the remaining stake in the company. Adding OmniSeq enhances our integrated oncology platform, expanding Labcorp's extensive oncology diagnostics testing portfolio and opening the door to more patient participation in clinical trials.We continue to concentrate on identifying and engaging in high-growth opportunities. We announced we are acquiring an autoimmune business unit from Myriad Genetics, including Vectra, rheumatoid arthritis assay. This will strengthen our position in RA, which the CDC predicts will impact roughly 25% of adults in the United States by 2040. Additionally, we agreed this week to acquire the outreach laboratory business of Minnesota-based North Memorial Health, and we'll provide management services to its inpatient lab.Our pipeline of acquisition and investment targets is robust, and we believe there are meaningful business development opportunities this year to enhance growth and our strategy moving forward. Finally, I want to touch briefly on the Board and management team's ongoing review of Labcorp's structure and capital allocation strategy that we announced in March of this year. Working closely with our advisors, we are making progress to identify the best path forward to position Labcorp to unlock shareholder value while continuing to support our patients and customers around the world.Though we won't have further updates today, we look forward to sharing our conclusions once our review is complete. We expect to do so in the fourth quarter. In conclusion, the quarter was strong across both Diagnostics and Drug Development businesses. Significant progress was achieved on our strategy and our mission to improve health and improve lives of people around the world, and we will continue to support efforts to stem COVID however we can. I am very optimistic about the future growth opportunities before us and our continued success. I want to thank all of our colleagues around the world for their tireless efforts to help stem COVID while also retaining focus on our strategy and our underlying business.Now I'll turn the call over to Glenn to review more details of our second quarter performance.Glenn A. Eisenberg -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Adam. I'm going to start my comments with a review of our second quarter results, followed by a discussion of our performance in each segment and conclude with an update on our full year guidance. Revenue for the quarter was $3.8 billion, an increase of 38.7% over last year due to organic growth of 35.5%, acquisitions of 1.2% and favorable foreign currency translation of 200 basis points. Our organic base business increased 42.4% when compared to our base business last year, while COVID testing revenues of $444 million were flat with last year.Operating income for the quarter was $704 million or 18.3% of revenue. During the quarter, we had $92 million of amortization and $43 million of restructuring charges and special items. Excluding these items, adjusted operating income in the quarter was $840 million or 21.9% of revenue compared to $381 million or 13.8% last year. The increase in adjusted operating income and margin was primarily due to organic base business growth, acquisitions and LaunchPad savings, partially offset by higher personnel costs.During the second quarter, interest expense was $78 million, up from $53 million lastYear. The increase was due to onetime costs associated with the company's refinancing of $1 billion in senior notes that were due to mature in 2022, taking advantage of the historically low interest rate environment. Excluding these onetime costs, interest expense would have been down $7 million versus last year due to lower debt levels and interest rate.The tax rate for the quarter was 28.1%. The adjusted tax rate, excluding restructuring charges, special items and amortization, was 25.1% compared to 23.9% last year. The higher adjusted tax rate was primarily due to the geographic mix of earnings. We continue to expect our full year adjusted tax rate to be approximately 25%. Net earnings for the quarter were $467 million or $4.76 per diluted share. Adjusted EPS, which exclude amortization, restructuring charges and special items, were $6.13 in the quarter, up from $2.57 last year. Operating cash flow was $487 million in the quarter compared to $371 million a year ago.The increase in operating cash flow was due to favorable working capital, partially offset by lower cash earnings. Capital expenditures totaled $97 million or 2.5% of revenue compared to $99 million or 3.6% of revenue last year. As a result, free cash flow was $390 million in the quarter compared to $272 million last year. During the quarter, we used $300 million of our cash flow for our share repurchase program. Now I'll review our segment performance, beginning with Diagnostics.Revenue for the quarter was $2.4 billion, an increase of 39.7% compared to last year due to organic growth of 37.8%, acquisitions of 1.1% and favorable foreign exchange translation of 90 basis points. Organic base business growth was 51.2% compared to our base business last year, while COVID testing revenues were flat versus last year. Relative to the second quarter of 2019, the compound annual growth rate for the base business revenue was 4.5% primarily due to organic growth.Total volume increased 39.6% over last year primarily due to organic volume growth of 38.7%. The increase in organic volume was due to a 39.4% increase in the base business, partially offset by a reduction in COVID testing of 0.7%. As a reminder, we do not include hospital lab management agreements in our volume, which would have added approximately 3.3% to organic base business volume growth. Price/mix increased 0.1% over last year due to currency of 0.9%, COVID testing of 0.7% and acquisitions of 0.2%, partially offset by organic base business of minus 1.7% due to mix associated with the volume recovery.Of Diagnostics organic base business revenue growth of 51.2% compared to its base business last year, 48.2% was driven by volume, while 3.1% was from price mix, which was due to an increase in test per accession. Diagnostics adjusted operating income for the quarter was $663 million or 28% of revenue compared to $309 million or 18.2% last year.The increase in adjusted operating income and margin was primarily due to organic base business demand and LaunchPad savings, partially offset by higher personnel costs. Relative to the second quarter of 2019, base business margins were down slightly due to the negative impact from PAMA. Diagnostics margins were down in the second quarter of this year compared to the first quarter due to lower COVID testing, while base business margins increased. Diagnostics three year LaunchPad initiative remains on track to deliver approximately $200 million of net savings by the end of this year.Now I'll review the performance of Drug Development. Revenue for the quarter was $1.5 billion, an increase of 36.7% compared to last year due to organic growth of 31.8%, acquisitions of 1.3% and favorable foreign currency translation of 370 basis points. Drug Development delivered broad-based revenue growth across all businesses, including COVID vaccine and therapeutic studies. Relative to the second quarter of 2019, the compound annual growth rate for the base business revenue was approximately 15% primarily driven by organic growth.Adjusted operating income for the segment was $221 million or 14.8% of revenue compared to $113 million or 10.3% last year. The increase in adjusted operating income and margins were primarily due to organic base business demand and LaunchPad savings, partially offset by higher personnel costs. Relative to the second quarter of 2019, base business margins were up approximately 200 basis points. While second quarter margins this year were lower than first quarter, we expect our second half base business margins to be up versus the first half. We also expect our full year margins this year to be up over 2020, which was up over 2019.For the trailing 12 months, net orders and net book-to-bill remained strong at $7.9 billion and 1.41, respectively. Backlog at the end of the quarter was $14.3 billion, an increase of approximately $300 million from last quarter. We expect approximately $4.9 billion of this backlog to convert into revenue over the next 12 months. Now I'll discuss our 2021 full year guidance, which assumes foreign exchange rates effective as of June 30, 2021, for the full year.We are raising our full year guidance to reflect the company's strong second quarter performance and improved outlook for the remainder of the year for both our Diagnostics and Drug Development base businesses. We expect enterprise-level revenue to grow 6.5% to 9% from prior guidance of 2% to 6.5%. This includes the benefit from foreign currency translation of 100 basis points. This guidance range also includes the expectation that the base business will now grow 17% to 19%, while COVID testing is expected to be down 38% to down 33%.We are raising our expectations for revenue in Diagnostics to minus 1% to plus 2% from prior guidance of minus 5% to flat. This guidance range includes the expectation that the base business will now grow 15% to 17%, while COVID testing revenue is now expected to be down 38% to down 33%. We are also raising our growth expectations for revenue in Drug Development to 17% to 19% from prior guidance of 12% to 14%.Our current guidance includes the benefit from foreign currency translation of 200 basis points. This guidance range also includes the expectation that the base business will now grow 19% to 21%. Given the improved top line growth expectations of our base businesses, we are raising our adjusted EPS guidance to $21.5 to $25, up from prior guidance of $20 to $24. Free cash flow is now expected to be between $1.95 billion to $2.15 billion, up from prior guidance of $1.8 billion to $2 billion. Earnings guidance assumes we will use our free cash flow for acquisitions and share repurchases, which we expect to accelerate in the second half of the year.We expect that capital expenditures will be approximately 3.5% to 4% of revenue driven by investments to support base business growth and productivity. For additional comparison purposes, we have also included, in the supplemental deck on our Investor Relations website, a view of 2021 second quarter results and full year guidance compared to 2019 results. In summary, the company had another quarter of strong performance.We remain focused on performing a critical role in response to the global pandemic while also growing our base business. As we progress through 2021, we expect to drive continued profitable growth in our base business, while COVID testing volumes are expected to decline in the second half. We expect to continue to use our free cash flow generation for acquisitions that supplement our organic growth, while also returning capital to shareholders through our share repurchase program.Operator, we will now take questions.