  OperatorGood afternoon. Thank you for joining Atlassian's earnings conference call for the third quarter of fiscal year 2022. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded and will be available for replay from the investor relations section of Atlassian's website following this call. I will now hand the call over to Martin Lam, Atlassian's head of investor relations.Martin Lam -- Head of Investor Relations Welcome to Atlassian's third quarter fiscal year 2022 earnings call. Thank you for joining us today. On the call today, we have Atlassian's co-founders and co-CEO, Scott Farquhar and Michael Cannon-Brookes; our chief financial officer, James Beer; and our chief revenue officer, Cameron Deatsch. Earlier today, we published a shareholder letter and press release with our financial results and commentary for our third quarter of fiscal year 2022. The shareholder letter is available on Atlassian's Work Life blog in the investor relations section of our website, where you will also find other earnings-related materials, including the earnings press release and supplemental investor data sheet. As always, our shareholder letter contains management's insight and commentary for the quarter. So during the call today, we'll have brief opening remarks and then focus our time on Q&A. This call will include forward-looking statements.Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performances and achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Forward-looking statements represent our management's beliefs and assumptions only as of the date such statements are made. We assume no obligation to update or revise such statements should they change or cease to be current. Further information on these and other factors that could affect the company's financial results is included in filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the section titled Risk Factors in our most recent Form 20-F and quarterly Form 6-K. During today's call, we will also discuss non-IFRS financial measures. These non-IFRS financial measures are in addition to and are not a substitute for or superior to measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. A reconciliation between IFRS and non-IFRS financial measures is available in our shareholder letter, earnings release and an investor data sheet on the IR website. During Q&A, please ask your full question upfront so that we can be fair and be able to accommodate the next speaker. With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for opening remarks. Mike Cannon-Brookes -- Co-Founder and Co-CEO Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. Q3 was yet another strong quarter for Atlassian. We continue to execute well and see great momentum in our business. We continue to see significant demand for our products across all three of our markets, and now have line of sight to $10 billion in annual revenue based on our current markets and current products. Atlassian has a 20-year track record of growing our ambition, and we've never been more excited about the opportunities in front of us. We had an amazing Team '22 conference in Las Vegas. It was incredible to hear all the customer stories, about the mission-critical workflows that we're powering from our customer community and all of our partners. We continue to learn from our customers about how Atlassian can help their teams work differently together. If you missed us at our Investor Day in Las Vegas, be sure to catch all of the materials and a recording of the event on our IR website. We'd love for you to learn more about Atlassian and better understand our massive market opportunities, our platform, the strategic bets we're placing and our future trajectory. With that, I'll pass the call to the operator for Q&A. Operator?Scott Farquhar -- Co-Founder and Co-CEO Mike, do you want to talk about the long-term future of Atlassian while we have a moment here.Mike Cannon-Brookes -- Co-Founder and Co-CEO I was thinking a shareholder letter maybe answered all of the questions -- perfect shareholder letter. 