
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call.[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to hand the conference over today to Mr. Gerald Gradwell, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Special Projects. Please go ahead.Gerald Gradwell -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Special Projects

 



Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to our earnings call for the second quarter of fiscal year 2021. On the call with me today are Roz Brewer, the Chief Executive Officer of Walgreens Boots Alliance; James Kehoe, our Global Chief Financial Officer; Alex Gourlay, Co-Chief Operating Officer of Walgreens Boots Alliance; and our former CEO, Stefano Pessina, is also here for any relevant questions this quarter as he transitions fully to his Executive Chairman role.Before I hand you over to Roz to make some opening comments, I will, as usual, take you through the legal safe harbor and cautionary declarations. Certain statements and projections of future results made in this presentation constitute forward-looking statements that are based on our current market, competitive and regulatory expectations, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after this presentation, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. Please see our latest Form 10-K and 10-Q for a discussion of risk factors as they relate to forward-looking statements. And note, in particular, that these forward-looking statements may be affected by risks related to the spread and impact of the COVID pandemic.In today's presentation, we will use certain non-GAAP financial measures. We refer you to the Appendix in the presentation materials available on our Investor Relations website for reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and related information. In addition to our earnings announcement, this morning, we've issued an 8-K, providing a recast of our historical financial statements to reflect the pending disposition of our Alliance Healthcare business as well as our new reportable operating segments. Please be aware that we may, during this presentation and answers to questions, make reference to the information contained in that 8-K. You'll find a link to the webcast on our investor Relations website at investor.walgreensbootsalliance.com.The earnings announcement, the presentation materials from this call and the 8-K are all available on the website. After this call, the presentation and webcast will be archived on the website for 12 months.

 



I will now hand you over to Roz.Rosalind Brewer -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Gerald. I want to begin by saying how glad I am to be joining you today for my first earnings call since starting at Walgreens Boots Alliance. After 2.5 weeks on the job, I'm optimistic about the future of our company and our ability to drive sustainable, long-term value for our shareholders.I accepted this opportunity because of the vast potential that lies ahead for WBA, and my initial impressions have been confirmed even more after spending some early days in the business. During this time, I've met incredible leaders, partners and customers, and I've been briefed in-depth on some of our core initiatives, including our vaccine rollout. I've also gained a greater understanding of our operations by visiting some of our stores and specialty pharmacies.

 



What I've learned already is that we have many incredibly passionate and talented team members who are deeply motivated by our purpose to help people across the world lead healthier and happier lives, and I definitely share their passion.It's truly remarkable how WBA is uniquely positioned with our wide global reach and unmatched expertise to be a force for good in the lives of millions of people every day. Of course, nothing demonstrates our impact more than the leadership we have shown during the pandemic, by ensuring personal protective equipment is on shelves, by keeping our doors open to continue providing vital medication, by setting up mobile units in neighborhoods without pharmacy access, by launching new pickup and delivery options, by rolling out extensive testing and vaccination programs in record time. We've played a vital role in the health and wellness of our communities like never before.We now have to take some of the lessons that we've learned in the last year and build on them. When faced with the terrible deadly virus, it's obvious, the team moved quickly, thought more creatively and worked together more closely and with great collaboration. This shared experience allowed the team to appreciate what WBA provides to its customers and patients even more profoundly. And these insights need to continue to propel us forward, along with decisive leadership and clear strategic direction.As a team, we will be intensely focused on accelerating our growth, instilling a culture of agility, establishing new healthcare solutions and building best-in-class consumer engagement across all of WBA.Our patients and customers have deep loyalty and trust in our brands, and we need to continue to find ways that we can serve and reach them even better.Our latest mass personalization programs and omnichannel capabilities are definitely gaining traction. But we are only just beginning to see what can be achieved, particularly with more than 100 million loyalty members in the U.S. We must lead the way to the healthcare of the future with consumer-centric tech-enabled platforms that bring together the best of our physical locations and digital assets and engage with our patients and customers on a one-to-one level.Of course, you'll be hearing much more for me as I continue to spend more time assessing our strengths and our challenges. Some of these challenges can be addressed more immediately, and others will take more time to solve. And there are already several major initiatives happening across the business to take on our most pressing challenges you will hear more about later in the call. But with strong positions in core markets, world-class partnerships and unmatched assets, we have all that we need to overcome obstacles and reach new heights.Overall, we're in a strong financial position to invest in future growth and to deliver shareholder returns. And the earnings we are reporting today show further evidence of that, with Q2 results ahead of expectations and giving us the confidence to raise full year guidance, despite the significant operational impacts from COVID.So with that, I'll turn it over to James and then Alex to take us into more depth on both our results and operations. James?James Kehoe -- Executive Vice President and Global Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Roz, and good morning. On the 6th of January, we announced the sale of the majority of our Alliance Healthcare business to AmerisourceBergen for $6.5 billion. With the announcement, the related assets, liabilities and operating results of the business to be divested have been reported as discontinued operations and are reflected as such in the second quarter financial results. As a result of the transaction, the company has reorganized its continuing operations into two reporting segments: United States and International. The United States segment includes our Walgreens business and our AllianceRx Walgreens Prime joint venture. iA will be consolidated within the U.S. segment, and our equity earnings in AmerisourceBergen are also included within the segment.The International segment includes all of our operating businesses outside of the U.S. Included here are Boots U.K., Republic of Ireland and Opticians; our retail pharmacy operations in Mexico, Chile and Thailand; our franchising businesses; and our wholesale JV in Germany.Please note that corporate overhead costs and costs associated with development of the healthcare technology start-up are reported separately outside the two operating segments. Please refer to our 8-K filing for further information.With that out of the way, let's turn now to our results.Adjusted EPS came in at $1.40, well ahead of our expectations and 8.2% lower than prior year on a constant currency basis. On a continuing basis, adjusted EPS was $1.26, a year-on-year decline of 10.8%.COVID-19 continued to have a material impact on our retail and pharmacy businesses. We experienced a winter surge in COVID-19 incidences across many of our markets. In the U.K., stricter restrictions in November, which we outlined on the last earnings call, eased temporarily in early December before going into a full lockdown state in January and February. Across the U.S., many states and local communities adopted renewed measures designed to stem the increases.As we indicated on our last call, restrictions and social distancing have caused flu incidences to be significantly lower than prior year levels, and this has had a significant impact on both seasonal pharmacy scripts and front-of-store cough, cold, flu categories. Additionally, we invested heavily in SG&A to both safeguard our store environment as well as prepare for the rollout of mass vaccinations.Overall, we estimate an adverse COVID-19 impact of between $0.40 and $0.45 per share in the second quarter. Despite this, our second quarter performance was better than expected as we delivered improved operational performance across a number of fronts. In particular, we saw better pharmacy margins, continued strong cost management, increased digital participation, and our International segment exceeded expectations.In summary, we continue to actively manage through COVID-19 related headwinds, and we remain confident of delivering strong growth in the second half of the fiscal year as the flu season subsides, and COVID-19 vaccinations accelerate.Cash generation was strong with year-to-date free cash flow of $1.9 billion, 4.8% higher than prior year. Finally, based on the strength of our underlying performance, we are increasing our full year adjusted EPS guidance from low single-digit growth to mid to high single-digit growth.Let's now look in more detail at the results. Second quarter sales were up 4.6%, including a currency tailwind of 1.1%. COVID-19 had a negative impact of more than 4 percentage points in the quarter. However, this was largely offset by the formation of the Germany JV.Adjusted operating income declined 22.9% on a constant currency basis, reflecting higher-than-expected COVID-19 impacts of approximately $450 million to $500 million partially offset by stronger underlying business performance and good cost management.Total adjusted EPS includes both discontinued operations and continuing operations and was $1.40 in the quarter, a constant currency decline of 8.2%. Adjusted EPS for discontinued operations was $0.14 in the quarter, up 26% versus prior year. The result includes a non-operational benefit of approximately $0.02 as the accounting for discontinued operations required us to stop depreciating the divested assets. On a continuing basis, adjusted EPS was $1.26, a constant currency decline of 10.8%. A favorable tax rate contributed 8 percentage points of growth, and prior year share repurchase activity contributed an additional 2 percentage points of EPS growth. However, these were more than offset by the very significant 27 to 31 percentage point impact from COVID-19.The lower second quarter tax rate was mostly due to discrete tax benefits. On a year-to-date basis, the tax rate is tracking slightly better than our full year expectations.Finally, on a continuing basis, GAAP EPS increased 8.7% with a gain on the partial sale of our investment in Option Care Health and a lower effective tax rate partly offset by lower operating income due to COVID-19.Now let's move to the year-to-date highlights. Year-to-date sales were up 4.8%, including a currency tailwind of 0.8%. On a constant currency basis, sales advanced 4%. Adjusted operating income declined 17.6% on a constant currency basis, reflecting higher-than-expected COVID-19 impacts of approximately 25 percentage points, offset in part by favorable underlying business performance, including strong cost management across all businesses.Total adjusted EPS was $2.62, a constant currency decline of 9.8%. On a continuing basis, adjusted EPS was $2.36, a constant currency decline of 12%, entirely due to COVID-19 impacts. GAAP EPS decreased 66.7%, mainly driven by a charge within our equity earnings in AmerisourceBergen, partially offset by a gain on the partial sale of our investment in Option Care Health.Now let's move to the U.S. segment. Sales increased 0.4% in the quarter with 3% growth in pharmacy partially offset by lower retail sales and the 2020 leap year. Both retail and pharmacy continued to be adversely impacted by COVID-19, including lower foot traffic, significantly lower flu incidents, down an estimated 40%; and a reduction in muted therapy prescriptions. Despite the benefit from COVID-19 immunizations and testing, overall, the negative revenue impact was approximately 400 basis points in the quarter.Adjusted gross profit declined 3.2% with lower pharmacy reimbursement, script volume and retail volume, partly offset by procurement savings and higher retail gross margin. Adjusted SG&A spend increased 2.1% in the quarter to 17.1% of sales, 0.3 percentage points higher than last year. The increase was mainly due to higher investments in strategic initiatives, including approximately $80 million to prepare and roll out COVID-19 vaccinations. Adjusted operating income declined 18.2%. Excluding COVID-19 impacts, AOI increased low single digit.Now let's look in more detail at U.S. Pharmacy. Total pharmacy sales increased 3% versus prior year with brand inflation partly offset by store optimization programs and the leap year. Comparable pharmacy sales were up 4.5%, while comp scripts declined 1.1%. An exceptionally weak flu season, combined with lower doctor visits, negatively impacted script growth by around 480 basis points. Day's sold within the quarter also negatively impacted comp scripts by around 100 basis points, but this impact will wash out by the end of the year. These factors were only partly offset by over 4 million COVID-19 vaccinations, which boosted script growth by around 140 basis points.Market share for the quarter was 20.9%, down 30 basis points versus prior year, including the impact of our store optimization programs. Adjusted gross profit, which included some favorable phasing and lapping of onetime items from last year, decreased low single digit as procurement savings were more than offset by reimbursement pressure and lower scripts.Turning next to our U.S. retail business. Total retail sales declined 6.6% in the quarter, impacted by our store optimization programs and the leap year. Comp retail sales decreased 3.5%, and excluding tobacco and e-cigarettes, comps were down 2.7%. The exceptionally low level of flu incidences led to significant declines in cough, cold, flu products, and this negatively impacted retail comps by 350 basis points.Excluding cough, cold, flu, our health and wellness business did well with sales up 9%. However, beauty declined 8.8%, reflecting a category that is heavily impacted by COVID-19 and noncomparable promotional activity.Digitally initiated sales grew 78% in the quarter to $370 million. Gross profit declined mid-single digit with lower sales only partly offset by an increase in gross margin of 60 basis points, driven by reduced seasonal clearance costs and promotional optimization.Turning next to the International segment. And as usual, I'll talk to constant currency numbers. Our International segment continued to be heavily impacted by COVID-19 with higher incidence rates and additional lockdowns across a number of geographies. Despite this, we are very encouraged that the business outperformed expectations due to focused execution, notably in Boots, U.K., Ireland and Opticians and strong growth across all of our eCommerce businesses.Sales increased 23.9% in the quarter, including a 34 percentage point contribution from the formation of our wholesale joint venture in Germany. Excluding this benefit, sales were down 9.9% with declines in Boots U.K. partially offset by growth in our existing Germany business, Latin America and Boots Ireland.Gross profit declined 13.4%, due almost entirely to the decline in Boots U.K. retail sales. Cost management was very effective in the quarter with SG&A reduced 9.6% year-on-year. This led to an adjusted operating profit of $146 million in the quarter, down 31.8% versus prior year.It is worth noting that the German wholesale JV is only modestly profit-accretive and will have a dilutive impact on the absolute margin of the segment. We anticipate ongoing AOI margin dilution in the region of 2.5 percentage points as Germany wholesale as a percentage of total segment sales increases from approximately 35% prior to the JV formation to just above 50% post formation.Let's now look in more detail at Boots U.K. Comparable pharmacy sales increased 3.2%. Lower scripts reflected reduced doctor visits as well as subdued prescription demand, but this was more than offset by favorable phasing of NHS funding and stronger demand for services. Comparable retail sales declined 17.9% as footfall remained well below last year. This was particularly evident in major high street and travel locations, where our flagship health and beauty stores and convenience retail stores were down around 70%, levels not seen since last May.Overall, Boots U.K. retail store transactions were down around 50% year-on-year, compensated in part by an average basket size that was around 30% bigger than last year.Boots.com delivered yet another exceptional performance with sales growth of 105% as we continue to build out and strengthen our omnichannel offering. During the full lockdowns in January and February, Boots.com sales growth was closer to 180%.The U.K. is one of the fastest immunizers in the world and the government has already defined a path to a complete reopening of the country. This will lead to improved market conditions as we exit the year.Turning next to cash flow. Free cash flow was strong with $1.9 billion delivered in the first half of the year, up $85 million year-on-year and despite lapping a strong prior-year cash flow performance. We remain very focused on working capital improvement initiatives and continue to remove excess inventory and extend payment terms to more optimal levels.Turning now to full year guidance. Based on the first half results and the outlook for the balance of the year, we are raising our adjusted EPS guidance to mid to high single-digit growth in constant currencies.At a macro level, the improved profit outlook reflects two key factors. Firstly, we delivered stronger-than-expected first half performance and successfully managed through a much tougher COVID-19 environment than we expected when we announced our original guidance; secondly, while the situation remains fluid, given the ongoing COVID-19 dynamics, we remain committed to delivering strong EPS growth in the second half of the year.As we look at the full year headwinds, we are managing through an exceptionally weak cough, cold, flu season and persistent lockdowns, and we will see some continuation into the third quarter. We are also increasing our investments across omnichannel, COVID-19 vaccinations and our healthcare technology start-up. However, these will be more than offset by favorable international performance, strong cost management, better-than-expected pharmacy margins, a favorable tax rate and, importantly, the accelerating rollout of COVID-19 vaccinations in the U.S.Our forecast is predicated on administering around 26 million to 34 million vaccinations this fiscal year. And that, of course, is very dependent upon the availability of supply. The forecast includes a benefit from the new $40 vaccination rate. However, it is not yet clear if the rate will be applied by all payers.In summary, we are raising our full year guidance to reflect strong first half performance and improved visibility around second half EPS growth drivers, but please recognize that there will be ongoing volatility associated with COVID-19 and the vaccine rollout.Let me now cover our key WBA initiatives. First, a few updates on our recent M&A activity. Since our last call and announced in January, we took a majority stake in iA, an innovative pharmacy automation company that will underpin our future pharmacy operations.The Alliance Healthcare transaction continues to be on-track to close this fiscal year. Also, within the quarter, we trimmed our ownership of Option Care Health, resulting in approximately $230 million of cash proceeds. Further, we are making good progress on establishing our tech-enabled healthcare start-up. Product development and engineering is well under way, and we have also started development of the physical channel. We recently completed a minority investment in Vim, a digital provider of healthcare scheduling and gaps in care management, and we will incorporate their advanced scheduling capabilities in our overall technology platform.In summary, we are on-track, moving at pace and very focused on ensuring a successful launch. Our transformational cost management program is also very much on plan. Our savings goal of in excess of $2 billion included around $80 million of savings from the Alliance Healthcare business we divested. However, we are not reducing the long-term goal to exclude the divested businesses as we have other cost-saving opportunities to offset the lost Alliance Healthcare contribution.Now let's turn to the International initiatives. As I said last quarter, one of our top priorities is to turnaround Boots U.K. and return it to profitable growth. The strength of the Boots brand is a central pillar supporting our recovery. Boots' reputation, as measured by YouGov, is now at a five-year high. The dual focus on cost efficiencies and investing in our future continues at pace. Our store-based online fulfillment model is proving to be an effective way of ensuring we can flex our distribution capacity to meet online demand. In fact, December was our largest ever online month and with second quarter sales growth of 105%, Boots.com represented 26% of our total U.K. retail sales.February saw the launch of Boots online Health Hub conveniently connecting customers to all Boots' existing healthcare services as well as an increasing range of local doctors, therapists and dermatologists. Leveraging Walgreens' successful Find Care platform, the hub's aim is to help people in the U.K. find accessible and affordable healthcare services where and when they need them.In-store investments continue at pace and are targeted at enhancing the customer experience as foot traffic returns to the high street. During the quarter, we rolled out new No7 counters and fixtures in more than 100 additional stores, largely completing our planned U.K. rollout and taking the total to over 750 stores.Building on our success in previous quarters, we have added new on-trend beauty brands, and we are attracting new customers to Boots, building on our growing reputation for stocking cult brands that were once only available from specialist beauty sites. We continue to play a key role in the community with 25 major COVID-19 vaccination hubs now operated by Boots U.K., and we have now completed over 2.6 million COVID tests for the NHS.The formation of the wholesale JV in Germany is proceeding according to plan. Combined annual revenues will exceed $9 billion, and we expect to unlock improved profitability over the coming years.Finally, our joint venture in China continues to grow nicely, adding 350 stores since the beginning of the fiscal year and taking the total to almost 7,900 locations.Now let me hand it over to Alex to speak to the U.S. initiatives.Alex Gourlay -- Co-Chief Operating OfficerThank you, James. We've had another busy quarter as we continue to execute against our strategic priorities of modernizing our pharmacy business, transforming our retail operations and developing our digital capabilities.In responding to COVID-19, we have accelerated the evolution of our operations across United States, and Walgreens continues to play a key role on the front lines of the pandemic. I would personally like to thank each and every one of our associates who support our patients and customers in an extremely challenging environment.One thing has become crystal clear during the past year of the pandemic: The importance of the pharmacy providing healthcare in the whole community, both in physical locations and through our digital platforms, is greater than ever and reinforces our belief in the strategic significance of all the pharmacists and the Walgreens network.Working with federal and state governments, we have accelerated our role in the fight against the pandemic. We've rapidly mobilized our operations to play our part in the nationwide rollout of the COVID vaccine program. By the quarter end, our teams have administered approximately 4.1 million vaccines to patients in long-term care facilities, at mass vaccination sites and in Walgreens pharmacies. And importantly, we've partnered with local officials to bring vaccine administration directly into local communities and to the most vulnerable populations. In March, we administered another 4 million vaccines, taking the total over 8 million to date.At the time of the last earnings call, we had over 30,000 qualified healthcare associates ready to deploy to the vaccination program. This number is now over 59,000, with capacity to administer vaccines at 8,000 locations across 49 states in D.C. and Puerto Rico.We're also partnering with Uber to address the problem of equal access to vaccines among vulnerable communities, ensuring that many more Americans are able to visit a vaccination location. We've also worked to improve accessibility to appointments and scheduling.Earlier this month, we introduced COVID vaccination booking on the myWalgreens app, and we're partnered with Nuance to offer voice recognition as initial method of accessing appointments. We've undertaken more than 5 million COVID tests since the pandemic began last year, and today, we offer testing in 5,000 locations.We're working with partners to expand our testing solutions, and we've launched a new business-to-business service called Test & Protect, allowing employers to provide testing and vaccination services to their employees. Improving the efficiency of our pharmacists is our top priority, both to manage costs, but more importantly, to free up pharmacists' time to provide valuable integrated healthcare services to our customers in the local community.As James mentioned, earlier this year, we announced a majority stake in iA, a company which brings automated pharmacy solutions and enhanced workflow capabilities to the Walgreens network. Together, we are establishing our first local automated pharmacy micro fulfillment center in Phoenix in April. This center prepares maintenance medications for qualifying patients in the area, which are then delivered to their local Walgreens pharmacy or to home, depending on the patient's preferred routes. We are now building out a second market in Dallas, which we will start operating in the summer.As we create a more efficient pharmacy operation, in part due to the iA-enabled automated local hub-and-spoke model, we have exciting plans to enable our pharmacists to play a key part in more integrated care models. We are on-track to open the next 40 Village Medical at Walgreens locations by the end of the summer. And we now have 14 locations up and running in Houston and Phoenix.As I've said many times, by coordinating our pharmacists with primary care doctors, we create a more integrated and engaging patient experience, and we believe this will help to lower the cost of care. Our VillageMD relationships go beyond our physical locations by also providing an integration of telehealth offerings.Further, on the digital healthcare front, our Find Care platform continues to grow, accelerated by the pandemic. Find Care connects patients to telehealth providers, local healthcare services benefits enrollment and healthcare educational tools. We are building our user base and increasing the number of providers accessible on the platform. The Find Care app has now reached a wide audience and is gaining traction. Visit traffic online and on the app was just below 70 million in the quarter. While much of this traffic was driven by COVID vaccination and testing inquiries, non-COVID related visits increased by 92% versus the prior quarter. We now have more than 45 providers on the platform, delivering over 65 services in 50 states, treating over 120 conditions.Turning next to retail transformation. As you know, we launched our new loyalty program, myWalgreens, last November, providing all members with new loyalty benefits, personalized products and services. Membership has grown from 40 million to approximately 56 million to date, which is a 41% increase versus the prior quarter. In the last month, mobile app usage was up 37% versus prior year. And most importantly, the app is resonating with our most valuable customers. Last month, myWalgreens Net Promoter Score was 41% higher and the score for balance awards, our previous loyalty program.We are continuing to engage with our customers through our mass personalization strategy, which boosted retail sales by 30 basis points in the quarter, building on 100 basis points lift in the second quarter of last year. As the pandemic progresses, we're really focused on giving our customers access to retail products when and where they want them.Through our combination of physical stores and digital platforms with customers having a choice of store, home delivery, curbside or drive-thru pickup. These enhanced retail pickup options are contributing to strong digital growth. Since last November's launch, over 4 million pickup orders have been completed to date, driving an increase of 78% in digitally initiated retail sales in the quarter.We now have one of the most convenient and quickest omnichannel retail options available in the U.S. with pickup orders completed in just 23 minutes on average from placing the order to having the product in your hand. We've also continued to expand our same-day last mile delivery capabilities by adding Instacart as a nationwide partner in addition to existing partnerships with Postmates and DoorDash.As we continue to redefine our core omnichannel convenience offerings, we are leveraging the data we generate from it to determine which additional products and services our customers want and identify new business models and alternative income streams. A great example of this is the development of our financial services offering, which will be available later this summer. And yesterday, we announced an agreement with InComm Payments, a leading global payments technology company, to provide convenient and accessible financial services options for our customers. Together, we will launch a new bank account with a Mastercard debit card that will serve Walgreens shoppers, both in-store and online, and allow them to earn myWalgreens cash awards in all purchases.Overall, we are really pleased with the progress we've made on our pharmacy, retail and digital priorities in the quarter. But I assure you, this is just the beginning. Our assets are uniquely positioned in the local community, and with our ever-growing list of capabilities, we have the opportunity to expand and deepen our relationships with patients and customers.I'll now hand you back to Roz.Rosalind Brewer -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Alex. As you've heard, a lot has been accomplished this quarter. And while operationally, our performance has been impacted by COVID-19, Overall, we've had a good financial quarter. And as a result, we've raised our full year EPS guidance, however, acknowledging that there is still work to be done to stabilize the base business.And on that note, I want to take this moment to thank Stefano Pessina for everything that he has done to bring WBA to the point where it is today, with a foundation for future growth. I'm looking forward to working with this team and the entire Board as we capitalize on the incredible opportunities in front of us.Again, you don't have to look any further than our response to the pandemic to understand what this company is truly capable of in the future. As just one example of that, we've already administered 8 million vaccinations in the U.S. in a few short months, many of them to essential workers, such as healthcare professionals and teachers, as well as underserved and minority communities. And we're poised to deliver millions more vaccinations in the days ahead.Another opportunity that we have is how we apply the funds from the sale of our Alliance Healthcare assets, which will allow us to reinvest in healthcare and further focus on our core businesses.I intend to move swiftly and decisively to lead WBA forward. And in order to do that, I've begun a detailed review of our long-range business plans across the company as well as how we make investments and allocate capital. I'm taking a close look at where we should reinvest in our business and how we drive financial returns.As you know, we also have a broad range of valuable equity investments across distribution, healthcare and pharmacy, and I'm reviewing each of those to ensure they provide strategic benefit in addition to financial return. Having been on board for only 2.5 weeks, it's simply too early for me to discuss anything further at this point, but I do look forward to sharing my further perspective once I've had more time to study the company from the inside.I plan to meet with many of our shareholders in due time and to communicate with you regularly and with transparency. There will be much more to discuss in later calls and meetings; but for now, I am energized to begin planning for the future, and I'm very excited about the opportunities ahead.So with that, I will turn it over to the operator and open the call for your questions.