  OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Jack Henry & Associates fourth-quarter fiscal year 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I'd now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Kevin Williams, chief financial officer.Kevin Williams -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Liz. Good morning and thank you for joining us for the Jack Henry & Associates fourth-quarter and fiscal 2021 year-end earnings Call. I'm Kevin Williams, CFO and treasurer. And on the call with me today is David Foss, our board chair, president, and CEO. In just a minute, I'll turn the call over to Dave to provide some of his thoughts about the state of our business, financial and sales performance for the quarter, some comments regarding the industry in general and then some other key initiatives that we have in place. Then after Dave concludes his comments, I will provide some additional thoughts and comments regarding the earnings press release we put out yesterday after market close and provide comments regarding our guidance for our fiscal year 2022 provided in the release and then we will open the lines up for Q&A. First, I need to remind you that this call includes certain forward-looking statements, including remarks or responses to questions concerning future expectations, events, objectives, strategies, trends or results. Like any statement about the future, these are subject to a number of factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those which we anticipate due to a number of risks and uncertainties.The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements. For a summary of these risk factors and additional information, please refer to yesterday's press release and the sections in our 10-K, entitled Risk Factors and Forward-looking Statements. Also on this call, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP revenue and non-GAAP operating income. The reconciliations for historical non-GAAP financial measures can be found in yesterday's press release. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Dave. David Foss -- Board Chair, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Kevin and good morning, everyone. Today, we are very pleased to share details with you of a quarter that produced record revenue and operating income as well as record sales bookings. As always, I'd like to begin today by thanking our associates for all the hard work and commitment that went into producing those results for our fourth quarter and for the entire fiscal year, particularly in light of the challenges posed by conducting business while dealing with the ongoing effects of the pandemic. For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, total revenue increased 10% for the quarter and increased 10% on a non-GAAP basis. Deconversion fees were essentially flat as compared to the prior-year quarter. Turning to the segments. We had a solid quarter in the core segment of our business. Revenue increased by 4% for the quarter and increased by 6% on a non-GAAP basis. Our Payment segment performed extremely well, posting a 16% increase in revenue this quarter and a 17% increase on a non-GAAP basis. We also had a strong quarter in our complementary solutions businesses, with a 7% increase in revenue this quarter and a 7% increase on a non-GAAP basis. As I highlighted in our press release, the fourth quarter was the strongest sales quarter in the history of the company. June was also the strongest sales month ever and have propelled all three sales groups to exceed their quota for the quarter. While they were signing all those contracts in the fourth quarter, the sales team also did an outstanding job of refilling the pipeline with new opportunities to set us up for success going forward. I think this is a good sign of the health of our market and bodes well for the start of the new sales year. In the fourth fiscal quarter, we booked 13 competitive core takeaways and 14 deals to move existing on-premise customers to our private cloud environment. Several of our complementary offerings also saw a very strong demand in the quarter with, as you might guess, our digital suite leading the pack. We signed 87 new clients to our Banno digital platform in the quarter, 10 new treasury management clients and 22 new clients to our card processing solution. For the full year, we signed 41 competitive core takeaways, with eight of them greater than $1 billion in assets. Additionally, we signed 35 contracts to move on-prem core clients to our private cloud, 219 new Banno digital customers and 55 new clients for our card processing solution. Of course, we signed a variety of other contracts for many of our other solutions as well, but it's important to note that almost all of these contracts represent long-term recurring revenue commitments to Jack Henry for a wide variety of our solutions. At our analyst conference in May, I shared with the attendees that we had just surpassed 5 million registered users on our Banno Digital Banking platform. As of the end of the fiscal year, we were at roughly 5.6 million registered users. As a point of reference, on July 1, 2020, we had about 3.2 million registered users. So in one year, we saw an increase of approximately 75% in our user count. This is significant because, as I have stressed in the past, most of the revenue for a business like this is tied to the number of users on the platform. We continue to onboard clients and their users at a pace of about 30 financial institutions added to the platform each month. In addition to our ongoing success with Banno, we have delivered many new and innovative solutions during the fiscal year. A few examples include our Symitar team delivered an automated database migration to almost all of our Episys clients, which allowed them to move to the new database structure with no effort or client impact. Our lending team delivered the Jack Henry Loan Marketplace, which allows banks and credit unions to easily engage through a digital experience in the buying, selling and participation of loans. Our digital team delivered the Banno Digital Toolkit, which provides a complete set of application programming interfaces, or APIs, to enable easy plug-ins to third-party solutions in our digital platform. Our payments team continued the expansion of functionality and adoption of the PayCenter platform and delivered the Zelle digital tool to enable clients not using our digital platform to connect to the PayCenter hub for Zelle transactions. And of course, the payments group completed the three and a half year project to upgrade our card payments platform. Almost all of these new deliverables are built on entirely new technology stacks and are designed to make it easier for our customers to leverage our open architecture tools and philosophy to deliver cutting-edge solutions to their account holders. As you may know, we have a number of active projects at Jack Henry centered on the topic of corporate responsibility. We continue to advance our environmental stewardship commitment and recently announced that on Earth Day, our associates launched a new business innovation group called bill green. Our business innovation groups are company-sponsored, associate-driven groups that provide a collaborative platform for people, ideas and thoughts to intersect and help address business challenges. Our associates decided that a business innovation group focused on our planet was appropriate and necessary for us to make meaningful progress on this initiative. As the labor market continues to heat up, we are focused more than ever on attracting and retaining talented associates. To that end, we have recently implemented new technology to expand our remote recruiting efforts and broaden our pool of qualified and diverse talent. Our hope is that this approach will only serve to improve on the reputation as a great place to work that we currently enjoy in cities across the country. Our consistent placement on Best Places to Work list is a testament to the workplace culture we have at Jack Henry and our employee engagement scores reflect that strong culture. I'm pleased to share that nearly two-thirds of our associates participated in our most recent engagement survey and our average engagement score was 83%, well above the industry benchmark. Like most employers, we have spent a good bit of time in the past few weeks wrestling with decisions around the right timing and approach to move employees back to work in our company facilities. We worked with our leadership teams earlier in the calendar year and determined that more than half of our workforce would continue to work remote indefinitely. We had targeted July 1 as our return to office date for those who would be earning in a full-time or hybrid basis. As the Delta variants surged, we reverted to our previous operating model with only essential employees in our offices every day. We have proven that we can operate effectively in a remote posture and we will continue in that mode until we determine it is safe to make a change. As I referenced on the last earnings call, our longtime chairman, Jack Prim, has retired as of the end of June. Jack had been with our company for many years in various leadership roles and as a board member and chairman. As a result of Jack's retirement, we have announced two changes to the board. Curtis Campbell has joined the board effective July 1 to fill the seat left vacant by Jack's departure. Curtis is president of Software for Blucora in Dallas. He brings extensive experience in infrastructure and cloud computing as well as digital development and a keen focus on customer experience. I'm very excited to see what new perspectives Curtis brings to our board discussions. Also effective July 1, I was elected to be the new board Chair. I was humbled and honored by the confidence expressed by the other board members and I look forward to leading the Jack Henry board to even greater success. As I reflect back on fiscal 2021, I can confidently say it was a very good year for our company. Our employee engagement scores remained very high and we've made great strides with our diversity and inclusion initiatives. Our levels of customer engagement and customer satisfaction scores are also very high. We have successfully completed several leadership and board level retirements and replacements. Our sales teams are performing extremely well and have positioned us for another successful year of selling. And overall demand for Jack Henry technology solutions remains high in all segments of our business. We have a commitment to doing the right thing for our constituents that we believe will continue to serve us well. We will continue with our disciplined approach to running the company and expect that approach to help provide stability for our employees, customers and shareholders. As we begin the new fiscal year, I continue to be very optimistic about the future. With that, I'll turn it over to Kevin for some detail on the numbers.Kevin Williams -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Dave. Our services and support revenue -- line of revenue increased 6% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 compared to the same quarter a year ago. As Dave mentioned, our deconversion fees for the quarter were pretty flat with last year's fourth quarter. However, for the full year, our deconversion fees were down $33.3 million for the full fiscal year compared to the prior year, which is actually the guidance that we provided a year ago on this call. Our service support revenue primary driver was our data processing and hosting fees in our private cloud and public cloud offerings, which continued to show strong growth in the quarter compared to the previous year, growing by 7% for the quarter. However, the growth in this line is slowed significantly due to product delivery and service revenue, which includes deconversion fees, license, hardware, implementation and convert merge revenue, which only grew 2% compared to the prior-year quarter, which this line is obviously somewhat impacted by COVID. Our processing revenue increased 15% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 compared to the same quarter last fiscal year. The increase was primarily driven by our higher card volumes from new customers installed last year and increased debit card and credit card usage from existing customers. Our Jack Henry digital revenue continues to grow, show very strong growth as demand for our Banno digital platform continues to be very strong, as Dave highlighted. Our total revenue was up 10% for the quarter compared to last year, on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. So excluding deconversion fees and divestitures, our non-GAAP grew 10% as well. For the full fiscal year, revenue was up 4% on a GAAP basis and 6% on a non-GAAP basis. Again, excluding deconversion fees and revenues from divestitures. Our cost to revenue was up 8% compared to last year's fourth quarter, the increase primarily due to higher costs associated with our card processing and higher personnel costs compared to a year ago. Our research and development expense decreased 4% for the quarter of fiscal '21 over the prior-year quarter. The decrease was due primarily to a slightly higher percentage of costs being capitalized for product development this quarter compared to a year ago. Our SG&A expense increased 3% in the fourth quarter of fiscal '21 compared to the same quarter in the prior fiscal year. The increase is due primarily to increased personnel and professional services costs. Our reported consolidated operating margins increased nicely from 18.7% last year to 21.4% in the current year quarter. And on a non-GAAP basis, our operating margins expanded from 17.8% last year to 20.1% this year. Our payments segment saw the nicest margin expansion in the quarter. After completing the payment platform migration in Q3, margins grew from 43% last year to 45% this year on the fourth quarter on a GAAP basis. And on a non-GAAP basis, our payments segment margins grew from 42.3 to 44.5, so over 200 bps margin expansion. Our core segment operating margins decreased slightly during the quarter compared to last year on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis, while our company segment margins increased slightly on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal '21 was down slightly to 19.7% compared to 20% in the same quarter a year ago, primarily due to some tax -- state tax deductibility timing. Our net income grew 25% to $76.9 million for the fourth fiscal quarter compared to $61.3 million last year, with earnings per share of $1.04 for the current quarter compared to $0.80 last year or a $0.24 or 30% increase over the prior year. Our cash flow total amortization increased 3% for the fiscal year compared to last year, primarily due to capitalized projects being placed into service last year. Included in the total amortization is the amortization of intangibles related to acquisitions, which decreased to $17.7 million this fiscal year compared to $20.3 million last fiscal year. Depreciation was up slightly at less than 1% for the year compared to the prior fiscal year. During the year, we purchased 2.8 million shares of our stock to the treasury for $431.5 million and we paid dividends of $133.8 million for a total return to shareholders of $565.3 million for the year. Our operating cash flow was $462.1 million for the year, which was down from $510.5 million last fiscal year, which this decrease was primarily due to the timing of various operating assets and liabilities and timing. We invested $157.8 million back intercompany through capex and capitalized software. Our free cash flow, which is operating cash flow less capex, less cap software and adding back net proceeds from disposal of assets, was $310.5 million for the year, which represents a 99.7% net income for free cash flow conversion. Yesterday's press release inadvertently omitted the proceeds from dispositions line of net cash from investing activities within the cash flow summary. Amounts that should have been included were cash inflows of $6.187 million in fiscal '21 and $11,130 million for fiscal 2020. The totals for investing activities were correct. This omission was corrected in the version of the earnings press release filed yesterday on Form 8-K and the one notated on our website. Couple of comments on our balance sheet. Our cash position of $51 million compared to $213 million a year ago, primarily down due to the significant stock repurchase we did. You'll remember at the end of Q3, we had $200 million drawn down on our revolver. During Q4, we paid down $100 million of that balance. So at June 30, we had $100 million on our revolver. We had no other long-term debt on our balance sheet other than operating leases. For the year, our return on average assets for the fiscal year was 13.1%. Our return on invested capital for the fiscal year was 21% and our return on equity for the year was 21.7%. Yesterday, we provided both GAAP and non-GAAP revenue guidance in the press release for fiscal 2022. We also provided a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP revenue guidance in the release following the segment information in the press release. Just to be clear, this guidance continues to assume that the country continues to open and the economy continues to improve, but if things work differently than this, then guidance will be revised. For GAAP revenue growth for fiscal '22, based on the amounts of the release yesterday, our revenue guidance is a range of 8.2% to 8.7% growth over fiscal '21, due to higher anticipated deconversion fees compared to FY '21. And for non-GAAP revenue growth, we are guiding to an initial range of seven and a half to 8% growth for the fiscal year. Obviously, these will be updated during the year on future earnings calls. We do anticipate GAAP and non-GAAP operating margins to improve a little in FY '22 compared to last year as we should have nice margin expansion in our payment segment and anticipate higher deconversion fees. I am somewhat cautious on guiding to too much of an improvement in operating margin as we will continue to have headwinds on license revenue as we continue to move core customers from on-prem to our private cloud. Also, travel costs continued to increase significantly compared to the last year. And at this time, we are still planning to host our Jack Henry Annual Conference and our Symitar EGI Conference in person this year. Therefore, there will be some large cost returning this year compared to last year, when there was very little travel. However, we do think that we will get at least 50 bps of margin expansion in the fiscal year. Our effective tax rate for FY '22 is projected to be slightly higher at approximately 22.5% to 23% compared to our actual rate this year of 21.7%. And this is primarily due to the significant impact from equity awards that were deductible in FY '21. Our initial FY '22 GAAP EPS guidance is a range of $453 million to $460 million, which is a 10%-plus increase from our FY '21 finish. This concludes our opening comments and we are now ready to take questions. Liz, will you please open the lines up for questions. 