  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to Best Buy's Q1 FY 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded for playback and will be available by approximately 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time today. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the conference call over to Mollie O'Brien, vice president of investor relations.Mollie O'Brien -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Joining me on the call today are Corie Barry, our CEO; Matt Bilunas, our CFO; and Mike Mohan, our president and COO. During the call today, we will be discussing both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and an explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful can be found in this morning's earnings release, which is available on our website investors.bestbuy.com. Some of the statements we will make today are considered forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may address the financial condition, business initiatives, growth plans, investments, and expected performance of the company, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. Please refer to the company's current earnings release and our most recent 10-K and subsequent 10-Qs for more information on these risks and uncertainties. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.I will now turn the call over to Corie. Corie Barry -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, we are reporting record Q1 financial results, which include comparable sales growth of 37% and non-GAAP earnings-per-share growth of more than 230%. We are lapping an unusual quarter last year that included both periods of high demand and periods when our stores were close to customer traffic. When we compare it to two years ago, our results are very strong. Compared to the first quarter of fiscal '20, revenue is up 27% and our earnings per share are up more than 100%. Customer demand for technology products and services during the quarter was extraordinarily high. This demand is being driven by continued focus on the home, which encompasses many aspects of our lives, including working, learning, cooking, entertaining, redecorating, and remodeling. The demand was also bolstered by government stimulus programs and the strong housing environment. Our teams across the organization met that demand with remarkable execution from our merchant and supply chain teams working behind the scenes to our blue shirts and Geek Squad agents on the front lines. Our employees once again showed amazing flexibility and execution, managing extraordinary volumes. Most importantly, they provided exceptional customer service in a safe environment. From a merchandising perspective, we saw strong comparable sales across virtually all product and service categories. The biggest contributors to the sales growth in the quarter were home theater, computing, and appliances. With the extraordinarily high customer demand, as well as production and distribution disruptions, product availability constraints continued to be a theme during Q1 as they have been throughout the pandemic, particularly in large appliances, computing, televisions, and gaming. Our teams collaborated closely and effectively with our vendors to bring in as much inventory as possible. This is a testament to the trust and unique relationships that our merchants have built with vendors over decades of partnership.

 



 Our results this quarter also highlight the strength of our supply chain. We were able to efficiently move the amount of inventory necessary to drive 37% comp sales growth while navigating record demand across retail, container shortages, and port congestion. We also improved our speed to customer as our online sales package delivery was not only much faster than last year, it was faster than two years ago pre-pandemic. In fact, same-day delivery to customer's homes was up 90% on a year-over-year basis. In addition, we continued to leverage our stores to drive fast and convenient fulfillment of online orders. In Q1, about 60% of our online revenue was either picked up in-store or curbside, shipped from a store, or delivered by a store employee, which is becoming an increasingly important aspect of our delivery experience. The percent of online sales picked up by customers at our stores was 44%, similar to last year's first quarter. This strong performance would not have been possible without an amazing and resourceful team of people, and the multi-year investments we have made in our supply chain transformation. Best Buy has a unique ability to inspire and support customers in ways no one else can. And as the impacts of the pandemic have evolved, customers across all age demographics are feeling more comfortable coming back into stores to see products firsthand, seek expert advice from our associates, or get technical support from our Geek Squad agents. At the same time, sales originating online continue to be much higher than pre-pandemic and we're 33% of our domestic sales, compared to 15% two years ago in Q1 of fiscal '20. In addition, we continue to innovatively help customers via phone and chat. We learned a great deal last year by bringing more of our expert blue shirts onto our digital and phone platforms to support our customers. In fact, most aspects of our unique and full suite of services have rebounded to pre-pandemic levels. For example, install, delivery, and in-store and in-home repair volume is all up or over last year and higher than two years ago. Active My Best Buy loyalty program members have grown considerably, and members are using the program more than last year and two years ago. Our total tech support membership acquisition metrics such as sales per store per day have rebounded and are even higher than what they were two years ago. In addition, total usage of the program is up more than last year and two years ago. During Q1, we saw strong growth from engaged and reengaged customers. Starting at the beginning of the pandemic through March, we saw elevated growth in new customers. In total, new customer growth is about 50% higher than pre-pandemic levels. These new customers gained during the pandemic have slightly different demographics from our historical new customers, such as slightly younger, slightly more female, and slightly lower income. We are encouraged by the fact that we are retaining these new customers at rates similar to historical levels, considering they are not only a slightly different demographic, but they also represent a much larger group of new customers than we have historically seen. As I mentioned earlier, online sales were 33% of domestic sales this quarter, compared to 15% two years ago in Q1 of fiscal '20. For the year, we have updated our working assumption regarding the mix of online sales, and now expect it to be in the mid-30% range from our original expectation of approximately 40%. This compares to 19% for the full year two years ago in fiscal '20. Nevertheless, clearly, the pandemic has accelerated the evolution of customer shopping behavior. Our research indicates our customers look to Best Buy to serve four distinct shopping needs: inspiration, research, convenience, and support. And customers expect to be able to seamlessly interact with physical and digital channels. We have a unique ability to serve all of these needs at all times in all channels. We are currently looking at how we can best deploy our team and our physical assets to meet these customer expectations and needs. As we discussed in our past few earnings calls, we are taking the opportunity to test and pilot a range of models and initiatives to better understand how we can leverage our stores and facilities for more fulfillment purposes and how we can deliver customer experiences with a more flexible and engaged workforce. Late last year, we launched a pilot in Houston to test a much more experiential store. For example, from an inspiring support standpoint, it has new PC gaming, headphone, and fitness experiences, as well as fully remodeled premium home theater and appliance experiences. In addition, it has a much bigger Geek Squad presence in the store. From a fulfillment standpoint, we reoriented the location of the store warehouse to be adjacent to a new covered drive-up curbside experience and lockers. Early results from this pilot show higher NPS and sales relative to its group of control stores. Late last year, we also began piloting new store formats to test our hypothesis of stores as more primary fulfillment hubs in four Minneapolis locations. In these locations, we reduced the shoppable square footage to provide incremental space for staging products for in-store pickup and to support ship-from-store transactions. The product assortment on the sales floor still includes the primary categories these locations had before the remodel, but the merchandise SKU count is reduced to focus on the most popular items. Accordingly, the pilot stores have fewer store associates, and we are testing a queue functionality for customers who would like to consult with an associate. In one of the four locations, we are utilizing some of the available space to increase the previous allocation to our Geek Squad business. Our goal is to retain customers and improve customer satisfaction while reducing selling square footage, improving speed and convenience, and operating a more efficient model. We will continue to refine and iterate to learn and evolve our hypothesis. Later this year, we will be piloting a new market approach. To best address local customer needs, we will leverage all our assets in a portfolio strategy across stores, fulfillment, services, in outlet, lockers, our digital app, and both in-store and in-home consultation labor. From a physical store standpoint, in this market, we will be testing an array of different prototypes, including 15,000, 25,000, and 35,000-square-foot stores, a new outlet store, and even smaller 5,000-square-foot stores. Our goal is to improve customer penetration by delivering new, more efficient, and still experiential store formats that are more proximate and relevant to customers. In addition, we believe we can operate more efficiently. For example, by reducing total retail square footage across the market, reducing open box costs, and improving utilization of our repair and auto tech capabilities. We also continue to refine our ship-from-store hub concept. While all stores will continue to ship online orders, we are driving efficiency and effectiveness by consolidating ship-from-store units in a limited number of stores across the country. In addition to our physical stores, our operating model is evolving to meet our customers' changing shopping behaviors that have been accelerated by the pandemic. The sudden and lasting shift customers have made to shopping more regularly and seamlessly across all of our channels has amplified the need to look at how we get our work done. As we think about our labor operating model, we are designing for employee choice, flexibility, and career opportunity. Our response to the pandemic has shown our ability to be successful when broadening the scope of responsibility of our associates and has highlighted the importance of ongoing flexibility and adaptability. A core aspect of our strategy going forward is upskilling and reskilling field employees. The benefits of this go beyond just the more flexible workforce. Yes, it allows our employees and us to schedule shifts more flexibly within the store and between channels like virtual sales, chat, phone, and remote support. But just as importantly, our employees are gaining skills that can be used across their career journey, and they're gaining more confidence. Early results are showing us that once employees add skills, they tend to drive a higher customer NPS. We are making significant progress as to date. Thousands of employees have earned multiple skill sets. As we continue to evolve our labor model, we have not lost sight of the competitive advantage our team members provide, especially in more complex sales transactions. Specifically, our in-home advisors, specific kitchen and home experts, and Magnolia system designers have the unique ability to create and build relationships and have developed clienteling skills. Earlier this month, we brought these three previously siloed teams together into one team. This will allow us to serve customers more seamlessly across all the ways they want to interact with us, whether it is virtually, in our stores, or in their homes. This change positions our most skilled employees against the most complex work within an entire market and will provide improved career progression opportunities for our sales team. Now called consultants and designers, the members of this coordinated team currently number nearly 3,000. We shared last quarter that our overall headcount was down approximately 17% as we entered the fiscal year. The% of our total employees that are now full-time is approximately 60%, compared to 54% pre-pandemic. We are iterating to find the balance between providing in place full-time opportunities that come with benefits and guaranteed hours and schedules, while also maintaining the flexibility that is often important in retail. Overall, we are doubling down on the expertise by investing in our people, in their training, skill sets, and career progression. We also continued to expand our employee benefits. Most recently, adding new programs focused on diabetes, physical therapy, and supporting and advocating for employees in the LGBTQIA+ community, and those managing complex chronic or ongoing care needs. These are in addition to benefits we added over the past few years that include 100% coverage of COVID-related healthcare expenses, expanded caregiver leaves, additional support for backup child care, tutoring reimbursement, and access to physical and mental health virtual visits. In addition, to show our appreciation for their hard work over the last several months and in recognition of their ongoing efforts in the face of pandemic fatigue, we paid employee gratitude bonuses this year. In March, all hourly U.S. employees received $500 if full-time and $200 if part-time or occasional/seasonal. Furthermore, all hourly field employees will receive an incremental $150 recognition award over the next two weeks. Clearly, the landscape as it relates to the pandemic has been changing rapidly, and we remain keenly focused on keeping employees and customers safe. We are continuing to encourage all employees to get COVID vaccinations by providing them with paid time off when they receive the vaccine and providing them absence time to be used in the event they develop side effects that warrant their needing to stay home and rest after receiving the vaccination. I would like to now share the latest developments of our membership strategy. As we mentioned on our last call, we purposefully pressed pause on this initiative at the start of the pandemic. Last month, we began piloting a new membership program called Best Buy Beta in 60 stores. This offer combines compelling benefits from our Total Tech Support program, our My Best Buy loyalty program, and our credit card program, in addition to other benefits. To be clear, what we are piloting is not in direct competition with Amazon Prime, Walmart+, or frankly, any other membership programs in the market today. It is playing to our unique strengths and what customers want from Best Buy. It includes exclusive member pricing, unlimited Geek Squad technical support, up to two years of warranty protection on product purchases, a 60-day extended return window, free standard shipping and delivery, and free installation on most products and appliances. I would note that all Best Buy customers already receive free and fast shipping on orders over $35 while Best Buy Beta customers get free and fast shipping on everything, including same-day deliveries. Membership also includes access to a support concierge service that is available only to Best Buy Beta members. The Best Buy concierge team is available 24/7 by phone, chat, email, or through the Best Buy app. The cost is the same as our current Total Tech Support program, $199.99 per year or $179.99 per year for the Best Buy credit cardholders. The goal of Best Buy Beta is to create a membership experience that customers will love and value, which in turn results in a higher customer lifetime value and drives a larger share of CE wallet dollars to Best Buy. It is very early, and the test results and insights will inform what we ultimately end up rolling out on a national level. But so far, we like what we are seeing from a customer and employee proposition perspective. Changing topics for a moment. I want to reflect on the fact that this week marks the one-year anniversary of George Floyd's murder. For us, his death last year was a long overdue catalyst for change. And as you may recall, I shared at that time that we would do better, and I'm proud to report that we have on many fronts. One area of particular emphasis for us is our role in underserved communities. In fact, just last week, we announced we're investing $10 million over five years to create pathways to opportunity for teams from disinvested communities in Los Angeles. As part of that effort, we will build a network of 10 to 12 team tech centers, providing access to cutting-edge technology, scale building, and career mentorship with a specific focus on connections and training in creative and entertainment careers. We will also provide localized post-secondary guidance, scholarships, and mental health and wellness support. This Los Angeles Community Impact Hub is a key step toward our goal to build a network of 100 team tech centers by 2025, which is part of our broader commitment to address technology inequities and advance economic and social justice. One particularly exciting aspect of this initiative is that we are using a new approach that engages deep partnerships with like-minded public and private organizations in the local community; in this case, founding partners Anneberg Foundation and Greater LA Education Foundation, and a variety of vendor partners and other organizations. We believe this will be an effective model for amplifying our social impact efforts, and we expect to deploy something similar in other markets. In summary, the year has clearly started out much stronger than we originally expected. That momentum is continuing into Q2, and we are raising our outlook. As we think more short term, specifically the back half of this year, we expect shopping behavior will continue to evolve as customers are able to spend more time on activities like eating out, traveling, and other events, and there remains uncertainty as to how this may impact our business, especially as we lap particularly strong sales in the back half of last year. That being said, there are a number of factors that reinforce our confidence over the longer term. First, it has become evident throughout the pandemic that technology is even more important to people's lives, and we are excited about what that means for our business going forward, especially in combination with both the heightened technology innovation that supports our more home-based way of work and life and our unique ability to inspire and support our customers. These are permanent structural shifts that we are seeing toward more hybrid work and learning models, streaming entertainment, and a sustained focus on the home. This increased penetration of consumer electronics presents opportunity as we grow our consultative in-home model to help our customers optimize the potential of their technology, as well as our unique support model that keeps it all working the way they want. Second, we believe the consumer is in a materially improved position with higher savings, stronger credit, more prolific vaccination, and more available jobs. Third, even with the elevated demand we have seen throughout the pandemic, we believe the nesting phenomenon will continue to drive demand for products and services that help customers improve their home experience, and our vendor partners are already innovating to create new solutions that cater to this nesting phenomenon like cameras and televisions and portable computing geared toward video interactions. And fourth, we believe there remains opportunity in the installed base that has not yet replaced or upgraded their technology products. For example, NPD estimates 15% of the TV installed base upgraded more quickly than expected. There is also opportunity in low penetration categories like health, fitness, and small appliances that have room for growth. Furthermore, inventory constraints in areas like gaming support sustained demand as customers continue to seek out ways to entertain at home. So before I turn the call over to Matt, I want to say a few words about Mike Mohan, who is participating today in his last earnings call as Best Buy's president and COO. When Mike shared that it might be time for him to leave Best Buy, I was met with many emotions. We've worked together for so many years and built a true friendship I have grown to cherish. As his friend, I was proud that he was ready to leave the company he loves and set out to pursue his desire to do more. As his colleague, I was truly saddened of the idea that I wouldn't be able to count on his advice and insights as I have for so long. What Mike leaves behind is a legacy of countless people whose careers he supported and thousands of decisions, large and small, that always prioritized Best Buy's success in good times and bad. When things were at their worst, he helped steady the company with his trademark candor and almost intuitive understanding of what makes this company tick. We saw him at its best this past year, bringing a lifetime of experience to drive clarity in a truly unique time. Most significantly, he has created a team that is, I believe, the best in the country, a team that will now step up and build on the strengths and growth opportunities that Mike himself has been so instrumental in creating. Because we will not be replacing either the president or chief operating officer role, three of Mike's six direct reports will now report to me. They include Rob Bass, who continues to run our supply chain and global properties organization; Damien Harmon as our head of omnichannel operations; and Jason Bonfig, who's our chief merchant. Now, I would like to turn the call over to Matt for details on our results and insights on our outlook for next quarter and the full year. Matt Bilunas -- Chief Financial Officer Good morning, everyone. Let me start by thanking our employees for the extraordinary results they delivered in the first quarter. Our team's ability to not only keep pace with the strong customer demand but also provide an unmatched customer experience while making strategic progress is truly remarkable. As a result, our performance was well ahead of our working assumptions we laid out at the start of the quarter. Enterprise comparable sales growth of 37% far surpassed our estimate of approximately 20%. We were able to capitalize on the elevated demand for technology that has remained throughout the pandemic. The sales originating from inside our stores was also higher than we anticipated and was a contributor to our higher sales volume versus expectations. In addition, our original outlook did not include the benefit of the March stimulus payments. Our non-GAAP gross profit rate improved approximately 30 basis points versus last year, which exceeded our expectations of a slight rate decline. The primary driver was a more favorable promotional environment as the demand for technology remained strong throughout the entire quarter. In addition, the impact of supply chain costs was slightly favorable to our gross profit rate due to the higher mix of sales originating from our stores. Lastly, non-GAAP SG&A dollars grew approximately 15% compared to last year, which was higher than our outlook of approximately 10% growth primarily due to higher incentive compensation and increased variable costs from higher sales. Let me now share more details specific to our first quarter versus last year. On enterprise revenue of $11.6 billion, we delivered non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.23, an increase of 233% versus last year. Our non-GAAP operating income rate of 6.4% increased 350 basis points. This rate expansion was driven by approximately 310 basis points of leverage from the higher sales volume on our SG&A and the 30-basis-point improvement in our gross profit rate. In addition, a lower effective tax rate had a $0.14 favorable year-over-year impact on our non-GAAP diluted EPS. Store closures and the various operating model changes we experienced last year during the early phases of the pandemic played a factor in our growth this quarter and will continue to impact our year-over-year financial performance throughout the year. As a reminder, we closed our stores to in-person shopping on March 22, shifting to curbside fulfillment to keep our employees and customers safe. By June 22, most of our stores were open to in-store shopping with capacity limits and reduced store hours. While these operating model changes certainly impacted our financial results in Q1, they, by no means, should take away from the team's ability to successfully execute and serve our customers. As Corie mentioned, when comparing our results against two years ago or the first quarter of our fiscal '20, total revenue grew more than 27%. Also, our domestic store channel revenue was higher than two years ago despite more than 40 fewer stores and online revenue growth of 175% in that time frame. As a result of the higher revenue, our non-GAAP operating income rate was 260 basis points higher this quarter than the comparable quarter from two years ago. Now, moving back to our performance versus last year. In our domestic segment, revenue for the quarter increased 37% to $10.8 billion. Comparable sales growth of 38% was partially offset by the loss of revenue from stores that were permanently closed in the past year. As a reminder, our comparable sales calculation includes revenue from all stores that were temporarily closed or operating in a curbside-only operating model during the period. International revenue of $796 million increased 23% and included comparable sales growth of 28% and the benefit of approximately 1,000 basis points of a favorable foreign currency exchange rate. These items were partially offset by exiting our operations in Mexico, which resulted in approximately $69 million less revenue this quarter compared to last year. Turning now to gross profit. The domestic non-GAAP gross profit rate increased 30 basis points to 23.3%, which was driven by improved product margin rates, which included reduced promotions and rate improvement from our supply chain costs. These items were partially offset by increased large product installation and delivery expense. As a reminder, we suspended in-home services for about five weeks during last year's first quarter. Compared to two years ago, our gross profit rate this quarter was approximately 40 basis points lower primarily due to supply chain costs and a higher mix of online revenue. Our international non-GAAP gross profit rate increased 70 basis points to 23% primarily due to improved product margin rates. Moving next to SG&A. Domestic non-GAAP SG&A increased 16% compared to last year and decreased 290 basis points as a percentage of revenue. As expected, the largest drivers of expense increase versus last year were: one, higher incentive compensation for corporate and field employees of approximately $190 million, including approximately $40 million for the gratitude and appreciation awards Corie mentioned earlier; two, technology investments, which also include support of our health initiatives; and three, increased variable costs associated with a higher sales volume, which included items such as credit card processing fees. When comparing to two years ago, domestic non-GAAP SG&A increased $156 million and decreased 280 basis points as a percentage of revenue. The drivers of the increase versus fiscal '20 were consistent with the drivers versus last year of higher incentive compensation, technology investments, and increased variable costs due to higher sales volume. Partially offsetting the previous items was lower store payroll expense. Let me share some additional context on the higher incentive compensation expense. First, it was much higher than expected in the first quarter due to the strong performance. This also includes the gratitude bonuses that Corie discussed. Second, since we now expect the full year to exceed our original annual incentive performance targets, we expect incentive compensation for the full year to be a larger expense than our original working assumptions. As a reminder, from a comparison standpoint, we did not record short-term incentive expense for the first half of last year due to the temporary suspension of our plans. Moving to the balance sheet. We ended the quarter with $4.3 billion in cash and short-term investments. At the end of Q1, our inventory balance was 43% higher than last year's comparable period and was 10% higher than our Q1 ending inventory balance from two years ago. The increased inventory represents our plans to support the current demand for technology, as well as actions we took last year to lower inventory receipts based on our reduced sales outlook at the time. The health of our inventory remains very strong and the increase in accounts payable this quarter was 44%, which demonstrates the rapid pace we continue to turn our inventory. Although trends have improved from the early phases of the pandemic, we are still experiencing constraints driven by the high demand in several other categories. During the quarter, we returned a total of $1.1 billion to shareholders through share repurchases of $927 million and dividends of $175 million. As we look to the full year, we now expect to spend approximately $2.5 billion in share repurchases during fiscal '22, which compares to our previous outlook of at least $2 billion. Let me next share some -- share more color on the full-year outlook for fiscal '22. We are encouraged by our results in the first quarter and our outlook for the second quarter. We now estimate fiscal '22 comparable sales growth in the range of 3% to 6%, which compares to our previous working assumption of down 2% to up 1%. While we continue to believe the role of technology in people's lives has only intensified as a result of pandemic, our working assumptions still reflect a scenario in which customers resume or accelerate spend in areas that have slowed from the start of the pandemic in the back half of this year. From a gross profit rate perspective, we are planning for a non-GAAP rate that is approximately flat to fiscal '21. From an SG&A standpoint, we expect dollars to increase as a percentage of revenue in the range -- as a -- and a percentage in the range of 6% to 7%. Consistent with what I shared last quarter, there are a number of factors are driving the expense increase. First, we expect our SG&A expense to increase approximately $100 million on a year-over-year basis as we lap COVID-related decisions we made last year to preserve liquidity. This includes returning to more normalized spend on items such as 401(k) company match, advertising spend, and store overhead items such as maintenance. This $100 million increase includes the benefit of lapping a $40 million donation to the Best Buy Foundation that we made in Q3 of fiscal '21. Second, we plan to increase our investments in support of technology and our health initiatives by approximately $150 million compared to fiscal '21. This increase also includes depreciation expense. Third, we now expect our incentive compensation, including the gratitude and appreciation awards from Q1, to increase in the range of $225 million to $275 million. There are clearly other puts and takes that will -- we will manage through. Some that will be more impactful in one quarter versus the next. But the previous items are the key drivers of how we are viewing the full year. In relation to capital expenditures, we still expect to spend approximately $750 million to $850 million during fiscal '22. Now, I will provide some color on our second quarter. We expect comparable sales to be up approximately 17%. The trends we have seen to start this quarter have remained strong and our revenue growth for the first three weeks of the quarter has been approximately 30%. We anticipate that our gross profit rate will be approximately flat to last year. From a non-GAAP SG&A standpoint, we expect dollars to increase approximately 20% compared to last year. As a reminder, we made several cost decisions at the start of our second quarter last year to align with lower sales and channel trends we were seeing and expecting to continue at that point. The primary drivers of the expected year-over-year increase include, first, we expect our incentive compensation to increase by approximately $100 million. Second, we expect our store payroll cost to increase as we lap last year's store closures. Third, we lap COVID-related decisions we made last year to lower cost reserve liquidity such as 401(k) company match, advertising spend, and store overhead items. In addition, we plan to increase our investments in support of technology in our health business. I will now turn the call over to the operators for questions. 