
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Seagate Technology Fiscal First Quarter 2022 Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Julianne, and I will be your coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Shanye Hudson, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasury. Please proceed, Shanye.Shanye Hudson -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasury

 



Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to [Technical Issues] During today's call, we will refer to GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP figures are reconciled to GAAP figures in the earnings press release posted on our website and included in our Form 8-K that was filed with the SEC. We've not reconciled certain non-GAAP outlook measures, because material items that may impact these measures are out of our control or cannot be reasonably predicted. Therefore a reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP measures is not available without unreasonable efforts.Before we begin, I would like to remind you that today's call contains forward-looking statements, including our December quarter financial outlook and expectations about our financial performance, market demand, industry growth trends, planned product introductions, ability to ramp production, future growth opportunities, possible effects of the economic conditions worldwide resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and general market conditions. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions and information available to us as of today and should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. Actual results may vary materially from today's statements. Information concerning our risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ from these forward-looking statements are contained in our most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC, our Form 8-K filed with the SEC today and the supplemental information posted on the Investors section of our website. As always, following our prepared remarks, we'll open the call for questions.Let me turn the call over to Dave for opening remarks.Dave Mosley -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Shanye, and hello to everyone joining us on today's call. Seagate had an outstanding start to fiscal 2022, underscored by our September quarter results. Revenue of $3.1 billion was spot on with our expectations and reflects robust growth of 35% year-over-year and 3% above a very strong June quarter. Non-GAAP gross margin expenses of 31%, well inside of our multi-year target range and non-GAAP operating margin increased to 20.1%, the company's highest level in nearly a decade.Overall, our results reflect record demand for our industry-leading mass capacity products and solid execution on cost reduction plans and our ongoing focus of balancing supply with demand. We are confident in our ability to deliver excellent results for the fiscal year. And based on our current view, we are raising our fiscal 2022 revenue growth outlook from the high single-digit percentage range to the low-double digit range. Further, reflecting on our long-term confidence in the business, I'm delighted to announce that our Board has once again approved an increase to the quarterly dividend by 4.5%.I've been very proud of our team's ability to post consistent financial results through an industry environment that remains very dynamic. We are seeing a confluence of factors creating inflationary pressures and acute supply chain disruption. These include semiconductor component shortages and freight logistics challenges that are creating cost pressures and impacting critical end product assemblies for certain customers. Notwithstanding these obstacles, underlying demand remained solid for Seagate's products, particularly in the mass capacity market, which is why we maintain a high level of confidence in our fiscal year growth outlook.Revenue from the mass capacity markets exceeded $2 billion for the first time, reflecting broad-based growth across each of the end markets. The cloud is the strongest contributor to the mass capacity markets and Seagate's revenue growth. Ongoing investments to build and equip new data centers have translated into stable healthy demand for multiple quarters now and we expect this trend to continue. Over the past five years, the number of hyperscale data centers has more than doubled to nearly 600 worldwide, with approximately 200 more on the way. Many of these planned data centers are being built by large cloud customers, but the timing of their investments and infrastructure build out is not synchronized, which supports a more stable long-term growth outlook for hyperscale investment. Seagate's high capacity drives are sensible to the world's largest data centers. We have very close relationships with our cloud customers to ensure our manufacturing and technology roadmaps continue to enable their investment plans and performance requirements at a favorable total cost of ownership.

 



In the enterprise and OEM markets, we achieved a fourth consecutive quarter of sales growth, supported by increasing IT hardware spending. Over the near term, the broader supply constraints that are highlighted may delay some of our customers' new product builds due to non-HDD shortages. However, based on customer conversations, we believe any pause will be temporary until shortages are alleviated. Demand for video and image applications increased significantly during the quarter, supported in part by a broadening in use cases that extend beyond traditional security and surveillance applications. The combination of high-definition cameras and data analytics enabling productivity gains, cost savings and revenue generation opportunities are actually driving adoption by a wide range of industries, including retail, manufacturing and healthcare.High capacity HDDs play a crucial role in helping businesses economically manage and extract value from an ever-increasing growth in data across the more distributed enterprise. Without question, the HDD industry is being driven by long-term secular demand for mass capacity storage, a market that we expect to more than double by calendar 2026 to $26 billion, and Seagate is well equipped to answer the call. We continue to leverage our strong arsenal of innovative technologies, manufacturing agility and industry expertise to deliver attractive total cost of ownership solutions aligned with our customers' roadmap. Our common platform approach illustrates these point well. We've been able to seamlessly transition from 16 to 18 terabyte drive and are now offering multiple varieties of 20 terabyte drives to meet the breadth of customer demand.We began ramping 20 terabyte products in the September quarter and I'm thrilled with the strong customer interest. I'm equally excited by customer reception for our MACH.2 dual actuator drives, which are now shipping at large scale. As we were anticipating a few months ago, we are seeing greater adoption of our MACH.2 drives for core and edge applications that benefits from the recent [Phonetic] right performance gains that we deliver with these products. We expect dual actuator to become more mainstream as capacities increase beyond 30 terabytes, this for both cost and performance requirements. I'm also confident in achieving 30 terabyte capacities and beyond.We continue to execute our research and development roadmaps and have recently achieved great HAMR test results and staging areal density growth that supports future product launches. Based on these demonstrations, our product development plans are on track. But our product introduction strategy is [Technical Issues] we will leverage HAMRs areal density gains to offer customer step function, capacity increases to deliver a strong TCO proposition and enhance value for both our customers and Seagate. Our focus on total customer experience is top of mind for the live cloud business. Our simple secure and cost efficient mass data storage as a service platform is resonating well among customers, particularly for backup solution. Today, live cloud is certified with a majority of the vendors identified by Gartner's Magic Quadrant Leaders for enterprise backup and recovery software. This quarter, we announced a multi-year deal with a leading video communications provider. I am excited by this partnership and recognize the trust that all of our live customers are placing in Seagate. We will continue to be deliberate in scaling infrastructure and developing an ecosystem to ensure that we delight our customers.Wrapping up, Seagate continues to deliver consistent financial results, underpinned by strong operational discipline, focus on profitability and growing demand for mass capacity storage. We believe these trends reflect a healthy structural changes that have taken place in the industry in recent years. Seagate is poised to benefit with our technology leadership position and strong track record of execution.I'll now hand the call to Gianluca to cover the financial results.Gianluca Romano -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Dave. Our September quarter results highlight solid growth across nearly all financial metrics and demonstrate Seagate's [Indecipherable] execution and ongoing focus on dragging profitability and free cash flow generation. Revenue was $3.12 billion, up 3% sequentially. Non-GAAP operating margin expanded to 20.1% of revenue, up 200 basis points quarter-over-quarter. And non-GAAP EPS was $2.35%, up 18% sequentially and at the high end of our guidance range.We grew total hard disk drive revenue to $2.9 billion, up 5% sequentially and 34% year-over-year. HDD capacity shipments increased 4% sequentially to 159% exabyte, up 39% relative to the prior year period. Growth was driven by increasing demand for our mass capacity product, which contributed 71% of total HDD revenue and 83% of HDD exabyte shipments. Revenue from the mass capacity markets increased to $2 billion, supported by growth across each of the underlying end market, which include Nearline, VIA and NAS products. Mass capacity revenue was up 8% sequentially and 51% compared with the prior year period, while capacity shipments into this market were up 7% sequentially and 53% year-over-year.Based on our current outlook, we expect mass capacity exabyte by shipment to remain strong in the December quarter with under year '21 annual growth likely above our long-term target forecast [Phonetic] of about 35%. In the September quarter, Nearline revenue demand was driven by improving enterprise spending and healthy growth from cloud data center customers. Nearline shipment totaled 106 exabyte, up 5% sequentially and 65% year-on-year [Indecipherable] demand for our high-capacity brand, strong growth for dual actuator drive and ongoing market momentum, while our common platform product spending 16 to 20 terabyte drive.Robust demand in the VIA market led to sequential revenue growth that was above the average for the mass capacity market and we expect solid demand to continue in the December quarter. The legacy market made up the remaining 29% of HDD revenue, holding relatively stable at $831 million, down 3% sequentially and up 5% year-over-year, improving enterprise demand, boosted sales for mission critical drive, which partially offset in decline in consumer drives, following a strong June quarter. We're starting to see a moderation in the face of our revenue decline following the significant market disruption brought down by the pandemic. While we could see some fluctuation in a given quarter, we believe the most pronounced impact are behind us.Finally, turning to our non-HDD business. Revenue came in at $251 million, down 9% sequentially of June quarter level. Our system business has been partially impacted by some of the supply constraints that Dave discussed. We're working closely with our suppliers to mitigate risk and we continue to gain new customer wins for longer-term growth in the business. Overall, strong demand trend combined with positive industry dynamics led to a non-GAAP gross profit over than $956 million in the September quarter, up 8% sequentially and 57% year-over-year. Cost relating to freight and logistics are continuing to increment high. While we will continue to take steps to reduce the impact of these costs, we believe that we remain a headwind to the business through the fiscal year.Our resulting non-GAAP gross margin expanded by about 140 basis points to 31%, well inside our long-term target range of 30% to 33%, including higher freight and logistics cost and component prices. HDD margins and now in the upper half of the range, reflecting better alignment in supply and demand and the transition to higher capacity drive. We anticipate continued solid gross margin performance with opportunity to increment higher as we have ramp our cost optimized product. Additionally, as COVID cost headwinds abate, we would expect margin to expand into the upper end of our target range over time. Non-GAAP operating expenses decreased to $339 million, reflecting less than one-time savings. [Indecipherable] management combined with higher revenue and margin expansion resulted in non-GAAP operating income of $627 million, up 16% sequentially and more than doubled the year-ago period.Non-GAAP operating margin expanded to 20.1%, which is the top end of our long-term target range of 15% to 20% of revenue. Importantly, the September performance demonstrated our ability to grow profits faster than revenue, supporting our strategy of long-term value creation. Based on the little share count of approximately 221 million share, non-GAAP EPS for the September quarter was $2.35, the highest level in close to a decade. Where inventory relatively said, we have days inventory outstanding at 50 days. We are working with suppliers and managing strategic inventory levels for meeting entities for the business, while we continue to monitor this dynamic situation.Capital expenditures were $117 million for the quarter. We currently expect fiscal year capex to be at the low end of our long-term target range of 4% to 6% of revenue, which is sufficient to support our future products roadmap, while maintaining expense discipline. Free cash flow generation increased to $379 million, up 7% quarter-over-quarter and more than double year-over-year. We delivered strong performance in the September quarter and expect improved free cash flow generation through the fiscal year, enabling us to fund our growth opportunities and return capital to our shareholders.We used $153 million to fund the quarterly dividend and $425 million to repurchase 4.9 million ordinary shares, exiting the quarter with 225 million shares outstanding and approximately $3.8 billion remaining in our authorization. As Dave mentioned earlier, the Board approved a $0.03 increase to our quarterly dividend, raising the quarterly payout to $0.70 per share. We ended the September quarter with cash and cash equivalents of nearly $1 billion dollar and total liquidity was approximately $2.7 billion, including our revolving any facility. Adjusted EBITDA was $724 million for the quarter and $2.4 billion for the 12-month period ending in September. Total debt balance at the end of the quarter was $5.1 billion with a leverage ratio of 2.2 times.In early October, we took advantage of the current attractive market environment to raise $725 million in capital, through a new $600 million fixed tenure term loan and upsized our existing term loan June 2026. These actions are consistent with our growing business and provide input to repay $230 million in debt and doing much. We reduced our average interest rate by 25 basis points and expect interest expenses for the December quarter to be approximately $56 million.Looking ahead to our outlook for the December quarter, we anticipate a continuation of the strong demand environment that we experienced in the September quarter. We expect revenue to be in a range of $3.1 billion, plus or minus $150 million. We expect non-GAAP operating margin to remain around the top end of our long-term range of 15% to 20% of revenue, and we expect non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $2.35, plus or minus $0.15. In summary, with an outstanding September, letting us [Indecipherable] to deliver strong top and bottom line growth in calendar year 2021 as well as fiscal 2022.I will now turn the call back to Dave for final comments.Dave Mosley -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Gianluca. Fiscal 2022 is off to a tremendous start and I feel positive about the current healthy demand environment which is reflected in our increased revenue growth outlook for the fiscal year. I'm equally bullish on Seagate's longer-term growth opportunities supported by secular demand for mass capacity storage. Our mass capacity innovation roadmap put Seagate an excellent position to thrive in this environment and continue to deliver revenue growth beyond fiscal 2022, in line with our long-term target of 3% to 6%. We are in the right place with the right technology and innovative customers with whom we are partnering closely to enable their roadmaps. Further, our robust capital returns program including today's dividend increase round out what we believe is a compelling investment story.With the UN Climate Change Conference scheduled to begin in less than two weeks, I wanted to highlight Seagate's commitment to ESG. Starting in fiscal 2022, we have incorporated sustainability into our executives long-term compensation plan based on the achievement of specific quantitative, environmental and social targets. Our environmental goal is linked with established plans to reduce the company's carbon footprint in support of achieving our science-based targets, from harnessing renewables at our California and Northern Ireland campuses, to installing solar capacity in our facilities and Thailand, Seagate continues to put our commitment to the planet into action. We have also incorporated an executive compensation goal to increase gender diversity in our leadership as we strive to cultivate a more diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace.For the third consecutive year, Seagate is among the best companies for women according to social media platform [Indecipherable] as well as one of the best places to work for LGBTQ plus equality by the Human Rights Campaign. In closing, I'd like to thank the Seagate team for their tireless efforts, our customers and suppliers for their continued support and our shareholders for placing their trust in Seagate. Gianluca and I are now happy to take your questions.