
OperatorGreetings, and welcome to Regency Centers Corporation Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Christy McElroy. Thank you. You may begin.Christy McElroy -- Senior Vice President, Capital Markets

 



Good morning, and welcome to Regency Centers' Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Joining me today are Lisa Palmer, President and Chief Executive Officer; Mike Mas, Chief Financial Officer; Jim Thompson, Chief Operating Officer; and Chris Leavitt, SVP and Treasurer. As a reminder, today's discussion may contain forward-looking statements about the company's views of future business and financial performance, including forward earnings guidance and future market conditions.These are based on management's current beliefs and expectations and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. It is possible that actual results may differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements we may make. Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements may be included in our presentation today and are described in more detail in our filings with the SEC, specifically in our most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q filings. In our discussion today, we will also reference certain non-GAAP financial measures.The comparable GAAP financial measures are included in this quarter's earnings materials, which are posted on our Investor Relations website. Please note that we have also posted a presentation on our website with additional information, including additional disclosures related to forward earnings guidance and the impact of COVID-19 on the company's business. Lisa?Lisa Palmer -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Christy. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us this morning. We are pleased to report another quarter of results reflecting strong progress toward recovery. The tide has continued to rise following the removal of most capacity restrictions across the country. Our portfolio of foot traffic is now back to at least 100% of pre-COVID levels in nearly all of our markets, and we've made meaningful progress on rent collections. Retailer demand is healthy.This is reflected in our strong leasing activity, and we're seeing fewer tenant failures and, therefore, lower move-out activity than we expected. We acknowledge that we are not completely out of the woods yet. We are all keenly aware of rising virus cases in many cities across the country as we experience another wave of the pandemic. New mask and vaccine restrictions are emerging, with the risk of perhaps even the return of capacity restrictions in some markets. But with the knowledge and experience that we and our tenants have gained over the last 1.5 years, we feel good about where we stand long term and our ability to weather additional storms.And importantly, if we do see new restrictions, we believe that, that impact will be short term. Our industry and specifically Regency's portfolio have proven its resiliency, and this is most evident in the meaningful improvement in our West Coast markets in recent months as all of our tenants were finally allowed to fully operate as the market opened up. I've said this before, and I'll say it again, the best shopping center assets will continue to thrive in the post-pandemic world.On last quarter's call, we discussed pivoting to office. We are confident in our path to recovery, and our strong balance sheet and access to low-cost capital give us a competitive advantage in developing and acquiring on an earnings and quality accretive basis. We have a really successful track record in that regard. And so with this pivot, we started our multiphase Westbard project in Bethesda, Maryland, and we expanded our existing project in Richmond, Virginia, which I might add is experiencing robust tenant demand.

 



Looking forward, we remain encouraged and excited about additional opportunities in our pipeline. Earlier this week, we also purchased our partner's 80% share in our USAA joint venture, a great opportunity to allocate capital on an accretive basis into high-quality assets that we have known and operated for 20 years. We raised equity during the quarter through our ATM on a forward basis, funding this transaction as well as providing additional capacity for future investments. As always, we are active in pursuing and evaluating acquisition opportunities.In today's transaction market, however, we do continue to see even greater competition for deals. There's been meaningful capital formation targeting high-quality grocery-anchored neighborhood and community centers as the investment market appreciates the demonstrated performance and resiliency of these high-quality assets. So as a result and as you would expect, we've seen continued compression in cap rates for these types of assets across all of our target markets.Before I turn it over to Jim, I'd like to take just a moment to touch on something that's extremely important to Regency and to me. One of the highlights of the second quarter for us was the release of our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report, which allows us the opportunity each year to showcase our leading ESG practices. We are proud of our accomplishments across all four pillars of our strategy, our people, our communities, governance and environmental stewardship. So please allow me this opportunity to share several highlights from this report and our progress over the last year.And again, these are just highlights: the development and implementation of a more robust diversity, equity and inclusion strategy; a gender pay gap that is now essentially zero; impressive philanthropic efforts by our team members in what was a really challenging personal environment as well as professional; increased tenant and community engagement during the pandemic, for which we were recently recognized by ICSC with three MAXI Awards; further progress onBoard diversity and refreshment; the introduction of an ESG metric for executive compensation; the issuance of our first TCFD report on climate change risk; and finally, outperformance in our reduction targets for greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and waste diversion. Strong corporate responsibility is a foundation of our company. It's ingrained in our culture. And no doubt, it's part of what makes us great.And just as we approach all aspects of our business, we look to continue to improve and evolve our best practices over time. Jim?Jim Thompson -- Executive Vice President, Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Lisa, and good morning, everyone. We remain encouraged by continued improvement in operating trends in our portfolio, including increased foot traffic, higher rent collections and strengthening leasing activity. We took another big step in our recovery during the second quarter as many more operating restrictions were lifted, providing a necessary catalyst to convert many more of our tenants back to rent paying status. While the progress and results are very rewarding, we realize it's not all clear sailing.We continue to monitor the implication of rising COVID case levels and implementation of mask and vaccine mandates in certain geographies around the country. But in contrast to earlier periods of the pandemic, vaccines are now widely available. Consumers are resuming more normal behaviors, shopping at stores, eating at restaurants and working out at fitness clubs. As of mid-July, nearly all of our 22 markets are now at or above 100% of 2019 foot traffic levels. And after nearly 1.5 years of operating in this environment, many of our tenants have learned to roll with the punches, demonstrating resiliency and creativity in adapting to an evolving normal.Moving to rent collections. We again saw improvement in all regions with Q2 and July collections both at 96% at this point. Our unresolved rent bucket continues to shrink. As tenants have been able to get back to fully operating, our teams have been successfully working to get them rent paying again. Our leased and commenced occupancy rates ticked up this quarter, reflecting reduced move-outs but also strong leasing activity, which I'll touch on. But more importantly, our net effective rent paying occupancy, which we discussed previously, is up over 150 basis points sequentially to north of 88%.We continue to believe this is the best indicator of our recovery progress. We also had another strong leasing quarter, exceeding 2019 levels on both new and renewal leasing as our teams are working tirelessly to get vacant space backfilled to accommodate the demand we are seeing. We are pleased to see great activity across all regions, including the harder hit states out west.Our leasing pipelines look healthy for the remainder of the year, with active interest from tenants in categories such as grocery, medical, restaurants, fitness, pet-related uses, off-price, health and wellness and some traditional mall retailers like home, athletic, eyewear and cosmetics. Although activity is strong, we are seeing some impact from rising material costs, labor shortages and permitting backlogs at local municipalities, all contributing to continued pressure on rent commencement timing.Our tenants are also experiencing inflationary cost pressures and staffing shortages in the normal course of operating their businesses. But we're hearing when we speak with our tenants that they are generally able to pass on many of these higher costs to consumers, especially in the trade areas that we operate in, reflected in strong sales among many of our grocery and restaurant tenants. We saw improvement in rent growth in the second quarter as well as we are making fewer short-term pandemic-related concessions to bridge our tenants. We continue to push embedded rent steps to maximize revenue and cash NOI growth over the life of the lease.And our GAAP rent spreads are back above 10% and closer to our 15% historical average levels. As our leasing activities ramp back up, we also remain focused on maintaining a prudent level of capex spend. Our positive momentum in leasing activity also extends to our end process, ground-up development and redevelopment projects. At our crossing Clarendon redevelopment in Arlington, Virginia, we're very excited to announce that we just signed a new lease with Life Time.This premier health and wellness club with a co-working component will take over 100,000 square feet of the four-story Loft building, reducing lease-up risk by bringing the project to over 90% leased from 3% a quarter ago and providing an earlier-than-expected rent commencement date. At the Abbot in Cambridge, Massachusetts, we have four signed leases and we've seen significant increase in office market tours now that restrictions have lifted, employees are returning to offices in Boston and students are returning to Harvard.As mentioned on our last call, in the second quarter, we started Phase one of our mixed-use Westbard project in Bethesda, Maryland. The first phase of this project will include a new giant-anchored 120,000 square foot podium-style retail building with structured parking and about 100 senior living units being developed in partnership with a best-in-class senior housing developer operator. Regency's net project cost for this phase will be about $37 million, net of land sale proceeds. We are seeing some modest impacts from higher construction material and labor costs, but our underwriting had cost escalations built in for that. And thus far, the impacts to our rejections have been minimal. In summary, we have a lot of good things happening.We're very encouraged by the trends we're seeing and the progress we've made, due in large part to the hard work of our management, leasing and development teams in the field. Mike?Mike Mas -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jim. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. I'll begin by addressing second quarter results and then walk through the changes in our full year guidance as well as the moving parts of the JV portfolio transaction and capital raise. Second quarter NAREIT FFO was $0.99 per share, helped by several items. Uncollectible lease income was a positive $7 million in the quarter as reserves on current period billings of approximately $5 million were more than offset by the collection of 2020 reserve revenues associated with cash basis tenants of close to $12 million.You can see this breakout of our uncollectible lease income on our COVID disclosure, Page 33 of the supplemental. As you may recall, our previous full year guidance range assumed about $30 million collection of 2020 reserves during '21, while we have already exceeded that as of quarter end. We also benefited from a higher recovery rate in the second quarter following a better-than-anticipated outcome from our annual reconciliation process. We do expect our recovery rate to revert back to more normal levels going forward.Most importantly, we are seeing higher-than-expected collection rates on our cash basis tenants of 86% in the second quarter. That's up from 78% in the first. During the quarter, we raised close to $150 million of common equity through our ATM program on a forward basis at an average price of about $64.50 per share. We currently plan to settle in the third quarter roughly $85 million to fund the equity component of our recently completed USAA JV buyout and view the balance of the capital raise as capacity for future funding of investment opportunities.We can settle the remaining shares at any time before June of 2022. The buyout of our JV partner's 80% interest in the portfolio closed effective August 1. As Lisa mentioned, this was a unique opportunity to invest in high-quality assets on a leverage-neutral and earnings-accretive basis. The cap rate was about 5.5%. In addition to the partial settlement of the forward ATM, funding for the transaction includes our assumption of the partner share of mortgage debt and $13 million of promote income received upon liquidation of the JV. Turning to guidance, we point you to the detail in our earnings slide deck posted to our website.We've previously discussed the larger needle movers to our earnings. And they certainly continue to move in the right direction, resulting in another healthy increase to our full year expectations. The most meaningful change that we made was to our same-property NOI forecast, up 725 basis points at the midpoint, and we reconcile the components of these changes in our slide deck. Of this change, 225 basis points is attributable to an increase in our forecast for the collection of rent previously reserved in 2020.Our forecast for the year is now $45 million up from $30 million previously. Of the $45 million, as I mentioned earlier, we have recognized about $32 million through quarter end and have collected another $3 million in July. The other 500 basis points of the guidance increase is driven by fundamental current year improvement, supported by higher collection rates from cash basis tenants and lower move-out activity, reflecting the progress we experienced through the second quarter and raised expectations for the balance of the year.Please also note that we've added the $13 million promote income tied to the JV portfolio transaction to our NAREIT FFO forecast, which will be recognized in the third quarter. We will not include this onetime transactional income in our core operating earnings metric. While we have not yet moved any tenants back to accrual basis accounting from cash basis, we are continuing with our evaluation and expect a subset of tenants that have remained current on rent to qualify in the second half of this year.While conversions may have a positive impact on straight-line rent and NAREIT FFO, we have not yet included any of this movement into our revised guidance range. From a balance sheet perspective, we remain on very solid footing as our free cash flows continue to grow meaningfully. Benefiting from a low payout ratio without having reduced our dividend, our leverage continues on a visible path back to pre-pandemic levels.We have cash on hand, full revolver capacity, no unsecured debt maturities until 2024 and balance sheet capacity remaining from our forward equity raise to be opportunistic. As we have discussed previously, we continue to expect our recovery back to 2019 NOI levels by the end of next year on an annualized basis, primarily due to the time it takes for rent to commence on backfilling vacant space. So with every dollar of reserved rent that we are able to recover and with every tenant, we can convert back to rent pain rather than absorb the vacancy, the shallower the trough and the higher the level from which we will continue to grow.With that, we look forward to taking your questions.