  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the General Motors Company first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded Tuesday, April 26, 2022. I would now like to turn the conference over to Ashish Kohli, GM's vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Ashish Kohli -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Sue. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us as we review GM's financial results for the first quarter of 2022. Our conference call materials were issued this afternoon and are available on the GM investor relations website. We are also broadcasting this call via webcast. Joining us today is Mary Barra, GM's chair and CEO; and Paul Jacobson, GM's executive vice president and CFO. In addition, Dan Berce, president and CEO of GM financial; and Kyle Vogt, CEO of Cruise, will be joining us for the Q&A portion of the call. Before we begin, I would like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statements on the first page of our presentation. The content of our call will be governed by this language.And with that, I'm pleased to turn the call over to Mary. Mary Barra -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Ashish, and welcome to General Motors, and good afternoon, everyone. Today, my remarks will focus on the ways in which the disciplined approach to our transformation is fueling momentum that will establish General Motors as an EV and AV leader across our product portfolio, our patented LTM platform and our supply chain in addition to other initiatives. But I want to begin by thanking our employees, our dealers, our suppliers and our unions for helping us deliver yet another strong quarter, a clear measure of the momentum we have. Our strong earnings in the first quarter were very similar to a year ago, and they show that we deliver on our commitments. Going forward, we have many revenue and cost opportunities to deliver our full year guidance, which we are affirming today. Last quarter, we discussed our plans to launch more EVs faster because they are catalysts for our growth. We have been very deliberate in our approach to get EVs right and to get solutions that are scalable and position us for leadership in key segments like pickups, luxury and affordable EVs, and deliver programs and services that support margin expansion. This includes the dedicated EV engineering group we formed in 2019 to develop the Ultium platform, the software organization that we brought together and when we created that same year to generate more reoccurring revenue by leveraging connectivity and the foundation of that is our vehicle intelligence platform and now Ultifi. The EV growth organization we formed in 2020 to focus on the consumer experience and to take out inefficiencies of our distribution system; the three battery plants we are opening in the United States between this summer and 2024 with the fourth plant to be announced shortly. The creation of a sustainable, scalable and North America-focused EV supply chain to control our own destiny. And a manufacturing plan that leverages our talent and our scale, including the existing plants like Factory Zero, Spring Hill, CAMI and Orion; and also our close partnership with Honda, which includes both EVs and AVs. We are now in a rapid launch cycle because of the investments we've made over the last several years. Taking these steps has allowed us to establish an unparalleled foundation on which to execute and scale. Because of this, our drive to produce 400,000 EVs in North America over the course of '22 and '23 is underway. For example, in the short span of time, the Chevrolet, GMC and Cadillac brands will launch six high-volume EV products into luxury, SUV and truck segments, all enabled by Ultium. We are also working on a fully electric Corvette, as Mark shared yesterday, as well as an electrified Corvette that will arrive next year, and I have to tell you the response has been overwhelming. So by the end of 2025, we will have installed capacity to build one million EVs in North America, representing approximately $50 billion in annual revenue. And we will have three EV programs in North America, each with annual production volumes of more than 125,000 units with opportunities to expand. This is a great start toward delivering our $90 billion of EV revenue by 2030. Cadillac will be our first all-electric brand, and its journey began last month with the production launch of the LYRIQ. Unlike all of our EV entries to date, the response has been very strong. We began taking orders for the full -- we will begin taking orders for the full range of LYRIQ models on May 19, and production at Springhill will accelerate through the second half of the year and into 2023. And I have to tell you, I was at the plant last week and the LYRIQ looks absolutely great. We will also have more affordable models that will be a major source of growth for Chevrolet and Buick. We are quickly regaining momentum with the Bolt EV and EV now that production has resumed. In fact, we plan to produce more than 50,000 Bolt EVs this year for global markets, including a record 40,000 deliveries in the U.S. The first high-volume Ultium-based SUVs for Chevrolet will launch next year. Chevrolet has already previewed the all-electric laser SS, its first fully electric SS model. We'll reveal the full vehicle in July, and it goes into production mid next year. In early fall, we will reveal the Equinox EV, and the launch is scheduled just after the Blazer EV. With a starting price of around 30,000 MSRP, the Equinox EV is a true white space opportunity for us since most affordable EVs from Chevy's competitors start at $40,000 or more. Of course, our biggest growth opportunity in North America is in trucks. We have led the industry in full-size pickup sales for the last two years, and we will lead in EV pickups as well. We'll do it by leveraging the capability and flexibility of our purpose-built LTM platform and decades of truck design and engineering expertise as well as extensive customer insights. The GMC HUMMER EV pickup is just the beginning. People who have driven the HUMMER EV confirm it is a super truck. One media influencer said, you somehow mixed the Raptor, TRx, Bronco and Wrangler all in one package, made electric and better than all of them. We agree. March was our best month for the HUMMER EV reservation since we unveiled the SUV a year ago. We now have more than 70,000 reservations for the pickup and SUV models, and we are accelerating production through 2022 and into 2023. You will see many of the HUMMER EV's best attributes available in the Chevrolet Silverado EV, including superior range, faster fast-charging capability, four-wheel steering, Super Cruise and a larger, far more flexible pickup cab and bed compared to our closest competitor. Just yesterday, we shared that Ultium vehicles, including the HUMMER EV and Silverado EV, have a new patented energy recovery system that uses heat from the battery packs to optimize range, performance, charging times and passenger comfort without adding mass or cost. These are the kinds of Ultium platform innovations that are driving a surge in Silverado EV demand and are an example of the benefits of taking the time to establish a dedicated and scalable platform. We are now at 140,000 reservations and growing, including retail customers in nearly 400 fleet operators, up from 240 last quarter. Production of the Silverado EV will begin at Factory ZERO in Detroit-Hamtramck in just 11 months, followed by Orion Assembly in 2024. We will begin building preproduction Silverado EVs in a matter of weeks. The supply chain supporting our EV production will also be a competitive advantage for us. Our strategy is to control our own destiny. So we forge long-term strategic relationships. We have invested alongside industry leaders and start-ups alike, and we are sourcing as much as possible from North America and strong trading partners like Australia. This includes rare earth material, permanent magnets, cathode active material and lithium as well as the cobalt agreement we announced this month with Glencore. We're also in the process of securing additional long-term supply agreements for nickel. Even as we scale our EV and AV businesses, which currently account for about 80% of our product capital spend, the earnings power of our ICE business will grow. In the first quarter, for example, we launched new versions of the Chevrolet Silverado and the GMC Sierra. These trucks have new designs, technology and improved functionality, including a new 13.4-inch infotainment screen on most models, Super Cruise with hands-free trailering and new off-road and premium models like the Silverado ZR2 and the Sierra Denali Ultimate. To help meet demand, we will add a third shift at our Oshawa assembly plant during the summer to build both light-duty and heavy-duty models. At the same time, we are executing major reductions in complexity and engineering expense across our ICE portfolio. For example, we compressed the footprint for today's Equinox and Terrain from three to two plants, enabling us to create white space capacity for EV expansion. We also achieved about a 70% part sharing and reuse on these models, along with more than a 90% reduction in build combinations. We sharply reduce build combinations of the Silverado as well, and we're applying these significant cost avoidance strategies across all of our next-gen ICE programs. For example, our next-generation Traverse, Enclave and Acadia will have one-third fewer unique parts and launch with higher EBIT than today's models. I'd like to wrap up with an update on Cruise. During the quarter, we took the opportunity to increase our ownership position to approximately 80% because we are extremely bullish on the team's rapid progress toward commercialization. As Kyle shared on our last call, Cruise continues to make great progress safely and deliberately expanding its full driverless operations in San Francisco. Cruise is now operating in about 70% of the city and is moving toward operating 24/7 across the entire city by the end of this year. Already, the fleet has traveled about 40x the distance from San Francisco to New York City, all in driverless mode and all in a highly complex environment. This includes several hundred rides for members of the public. We'll have more Cruise news to share as it completes a permitting process to charge for rights in San Francisco and as the Cruise Origin launch at Factory ZERO approaches. And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Paul.Paul Jacobson -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Mary, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for taking the time to join us today. We delivered a very strong first quarter, including over 10% year-over-year revenue growth, fueled by robust demand for our products, especially for our full-size trucks and SUVs. Our plants were largely running regular production as the team worked to overcome semiconductor and other supply constraints. Strong customer demand for our products has continued into April, with most vehicles continuing to turn immediately as they arrive at dealers. As Mary highlighted, we've continued to take strategic actions designed to create long-term shareholder value and prioritize investments in EVs and AVs that will help accelerate our growth. In the case of Cruise, we utilized approximately $3.5 billion in cash to capitalize on an opportunity to increase our ownership percentage from just over 60% to approximately 80% at a very attractive private market valuation. Our increased ownership percentage in Cruise triggered a reconsolidation for income tax purposes and lowered our expected full year adjusted effective tax rate by 3 percentage points to approximately 20%. As a result, and to be transparent, we increased our full year EPS diluted adjusted guidance by $0.25 to address this. This transaction is directly in line with our capital allocation priorities to invest in businesses that drive outsized growth opportunities given the tremendous long-term potential we see at Cruise. Now, let's turn to Q1 results. We generated $36 billion in revenue, $4 billion in EBIT adjusted, 11.2% EBIT adjusted margin and $2.09 per share in EPS diluted adjusted. These results demonstrate the resiliency of the team and our ability to mitigate the impacts of higher commodity costs as well as investments in our growth in EV transition. In fact, our results were similar to the first quarter of last year despite $2.5 billion in higher costs, highlighting the strength of our products and the demand environment. Sequentially, we saw growth in total company wholesale volumes of 12% from Q4 2021. We recognize the consumer is facing inflationary pressures. However, we continue to see ongoing strong customer demand for our vehicles, including our refreshed full-size pickup trucks, as Mary mentioned. We were able to protect against significant plant downtime and the team worked effectively to minimize the impact of continued short-term disruptions from semiconductor and other challenges. Overall, we see the availability of semiconductors continuing to improve and are working closely with our supply chain partners to help deliver our full year total company wholesale volume goal of 25% to 30% growth. Adjusted automotive free cash flow was breakeven for the quarter, an improvement of $1.9 billion year over year, driven by favorable working capital, partially offset by higher capex and nonrecurrence of a GM Financial dividend during the quarter. Now, let's take a closer look at North America. In Q1, North America delivered EBIT adjusted of $3.1 billion, flat year over year, driven by strong pricing on our full-size trucks and SUVs, offset by higher commodity costs and investments in growth. We're also pleased to achieve EBIT-adjusted margins in North America of 10.7%, on track with our 2022 full year guidance of 10%. New vehicles have continued to turn very quickly, and U.S. dealer inventories remain tight at around 270,000 units with much of this inventory in transit. That grounded inventory on dealer lots is less than 15 days. We continue to see ATP increases across our vehicle segments, including year-over-year increase of 10% for trucks and 20% for crossovers. While the first quarter presented challenges for commodity and logistics costs, our teams are working effectively to manage these dynamics. We have contractual protections in place for some commodities to help ensure supply and to provide some protection against cost volatility. We also made some proactive decisions early in the year to bolster our supply and provide pricing protection. For example, we secured palladium inventory that is sufficient to meet our production needs through the end of this year. Through these actions, our commodity and logistics headwinds year over year came in line with our expectations at around $1 billion in Q1. Consistent with prior guidance, we saw increased investments, primarily in engineering and software development resources as we continue to vertically integrate to help drive revenue from our new hardware and software platforms. Now, let's move to GM International. GMI delivered first quarter EBIT adjusted of $300 million, results consistent with Q1 2021. This included $200 million of equity income in China, down $100 million year over year, driven primarily by recent COVID impacts, partially offset by stabilization in pricing and continued cost actions. EBIT-adjusted in GMI, excluding China, was $100 million, up $100 million year over year, with results driven by both favorable volume, pricing and mix, partially offset by commodity and semiconductor impacts. We continue to see momentum in the international business, and I'm really proud of the work that the team has been doing. A few comments on GM Financial and corporate expenses. GM Financial delivered solid results again driven by strong used vehicle prices and favorable credit performance, with Q1 EBT adjusted of $1.3 billion, up $100 million year over year. Used vehicle prices were modestly lower sequentially in Q1 to Q4, but we would not expect to see an impact unless used car values decline another 10% to 15% from current prices. Corporate expenses were $400 million in the quarter, almost exclusively driven by differences in year-over-year mark-to-market changes which also includes the full year or the first quarter profitability for the whole company. Moving to Cruise. As I mentioned earlier, we captured an opportunity in Q1 to acquire additional shares in Cruise, and we also initiated a program to provide an ongoing liquidity opportunity for Cruise employees. The liquidity opportunity included a modification to existing equity awards to remove the requirement for liquidity event vesting, resulting in Cruise recognizing a $1.1 billion compensation expense in Q1 for the awards that would have previously reached their time vesting threshold. We treated this expense as special for purposes of EBIT adjusted given the expense would have been recognized previously under the modified terms. Going forward, future stock compensation expenses at Cruise will be recognized over the vesting period in earnings. Inclusive of the incremental stock compensation expenses, we expect full year 2022 expenses at Cruise to be approximately $2 billion. Turning to our 2022 outlook for the calendar year. We have a number of tools at our disposal as we've demonstrated to help offset higher costs and are taking active steps to ensure that we deliver on our full year 2022 guidance range of EBIT adjusted of $13 billion to $15 billion and North American margins of 10%. We're utilizing similar strategies as we have in the past to offset these commodity and logistics costs, which are currently projected to be approximately $2.5 billion higher than the $2.5 billion included in our original guidance earlier this year. These strategies include pricing actions as well as holding additional inventory of key commodities to manage price and global trade volatility. As Mary mentioned, we're also being proactive in finding cost efficiencies throughout the company. In summary, we're off to a good start to the year, and the team is laser-focused in a dynamic environment, while at the same time executing on the launch of the Cadillac LYRIQ, accelerating production of the GMC HUMMER EV and preparing for our future mass-market EV product launches. We are making the right long-term strategic decisions for the business, executing on our transformation that will support the long-term earnings power of the company and creating significant value for the shareholders. We are very optimistic about the future of the company and our vision of an all-electric future. I will now turn it back over to Mary for one last comment.Mary Barra -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Paul. Now I've said many times that the resiliency and creativity are drivers for our success, so is accountability. One reason why Cruise has accomplished so much so quickly is that the team is inspired by its mission, and everyone has a financial stake in the company's success. The new equity compensation program Cruise created is designed to reinforce its culture and to help to continue to attract the best and the brightest talent. Paul said, it has been very well received and it will help keep everyone focused on the mission at hand. At GM, our compensation has always been driven by the company's success, and no one should doubt our commitment to lead in EVs or the passion our team has for that mission. That's why this is the right time to directly link a significant part of the long-term compensation for me and every other GM executive to meeting our EV goals. Starting this year, we have added metrics for EV volumes in North America, EV launch timing and EV launch quality to our existing EBIT margin and total shareholder return measures. The metrics are in place now, and they will appear in our proxy statement, which we'll file on April 29, but I wanted to share the news today to underscore our commitment to our EV future. Now, Paul and I are happy to take your questions. 