  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Constellation Energy Corporation first quarter 2022 earnings call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this call may be recorded. I would now like to introduce your host for today's call, Emily Duncan, vice president, investor relations. You may begin.Emily Duncan -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Shannon. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for our first Constellation Energy Corporation earnings conference call as a stand-alone company. Leading the call today are Joe Dominguez, Constellation's president and chief executive officer, and Dan Eggers, constellation's chief financial officer. They are joined by other members of Constellation's senior management team, who will be available to answer your questions following our prepared remarks. We issued our earnings release this morning along with the presentation, all of which can be found in the investor relations section of Constellation's website. The earnings release and other matters, which we discuss during today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates regarding Constellation and its subsidiaries following the completion of the separation from Exelon that are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ from our forward-looking statements based on factors and assumptions discussed in today's material and comments made during this call. Please refer to today's 8-K and Constellation's other SEC filings for discussions of risk factors and other circumstances and considerations that may cause results to differ from management's projections, forecasts and expectations.Today's presentation also includes references to adjusted operating earnings and other non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the information contained in the appendix of our presentation and our earnings release for reconciliations between the non-GAAP measures and the nearest equivalent GAAP measures. I'll now turn it over to the CEO of Constellation, Joe Dominguez. Joe Dominguez -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Emily. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining the call and for your interest in our company. As you can imagine, there's quite a bit of excitement here in Baltimore as we gather as senior executives to celebrate the occasion and milestone of our first earnings call. We had a strong quarter with good performance and across the board here at Constellation, exactly the way you want to start off. Our nuclear team, our power and renewables business and our commercial business all performed exceptionally well throughout the quarter. It's a strong start, and I just want to pause for a second and give a shout out to the talented women and men for everything they do for our company. You're the reason for our success. Since this is our first quarter, I wanted to start on page five of the deck and take a moment to remind you what we're all about here at Constellation. As you know, we produced the most carbon-free energy in America and have one of the lowest carbon intensities of any large power company in America by a very wide margin. But we're not resting on our laurels. We announced on analyst day our goal for our generation to be 95% carbon-free by 2030, and 100% clean by 2040. That's not net clean, that's clean. Our power and renewables business has some of the best natural gas and renewable energy facilities in the nation, and they are producing some strong results. And finally, our commercial and customer-facing business deliver sustainable energy solutions to millions of families and businesses across America, including many of the nation's leading companies. We support our communities by providing good paying jobs generously contributing to charitable organizations, volunteering and delivering clean energy and solutions everywhere we sit. All of this work is supported by a strong investment-grade balance sheet that we carefully manage to provide liquidity throughout the commodity cycle. In sum, we are committed to being a leader in solving the climate crisis. We have the financial tools in place to provide maximum flexibility, and we remain a stalwart presence in the communities that we're privileged to serve. Let me flip to slide six. Delivering the results that we report today in a very complicated energy world is, of course, challenging. But it's only part of the challenges we faced here at Constellation during the first quarter. In addition to running the business and delivering strong results, our folks have handled the corporate separation with Exelon, standing up new teams and capabilities. We have many leaders in new roles, and I'm proud to say that the separation has gone smoothly and without disruptions. Our IT platforms have had no issues, we're on track to separate the platforms and terminate the transition services agreement between Exelon and Constellation on time and on budget. Thanks again to the hard work and excellence of the teams at Constellation and Exelon, who are working on those issues. Our plants continue to operate at world-class levels, and our customers continue to receive top-notch service and be linked to clean energy products. In fact, some of the highest customer satisfaction scores we've ever received as a company we've received this quarter. Since separation, we have delivered first quartile adjusted EBITDA of $866 million. We paid our first dividend. We reduced our debt by nearly $2.5 billion ahead of schedule, and strengthening that strong balance sheet that I mentioned, at the outset, is a core strength of ours and a competitive advantage. Dan will get into the details of all of these achievements and more. But I want to say that consistent with our past practice, while we are reaffirming guidance today, we will not revisit guidance until we get through the summer. From a policy standpoint, states continue to lead on addressing climate change. Maryland enacted the Climate Solutions Act, which will help the state reach its greenhouse goals. Importantly, for the first time, it recognized nuclear energy as an essential resource in achieving these goals. In Pennsylvania, the regulations for the state to join RGGI are finalized. As a result, Pennsylvania is poised to participate in the program and reduce emissions by 225 million tons by 2030, producing cleaner air for families across the Commonwealth. Both of these important policy outcomes are the result of the excellent work by our internal teams led by Kathleen Barron and all of our community partners. We appreciate that partnership. At the federal level, we continue to work with industry, labor and environmental partners to ensure that nuclear energy is part of the next federal energy package, earning the same tax credits that other technologies have enjoyed for a long time and ensuring that this vital technology is an American resource for decades to come. Now we all know that we're not across the finish line in D.C. with the anticipated tax package, but we believe that progress is being made, and we remain cautiously optimistic that a favorable outcome will be achieved this year. And look, I know that all of you, like the folks here at Constellation, like to look at the windshield that what's in front of us and not so much look in the rearview mirror. But I do think it's important sometimes to pause and remember the journey we've traveled. It wasn't so many years ago where policymakers and even climate scientists ignored the vital role of nuclear energy as part of an overall strategy to solve the climate crisis while providing affordable and reliable power to customers. Environmental groups, many who cut their teeth in the antinuclear movement, pressed hard to close plants. And unfortunately, some entire countries took that advice. The very thought that nuclear would receive state policy support was a joke to some. Well, obviously, all of that has changed in a few short years, as people across the globe have come to understand the critical importance of clean nuclear energy. Unfortunately, the change in mindset came too late to save some plants in Europe, where the painful consequences of very poor energy decisions are revealed today in more pollution and less energy and national security. No one is happy about that. And although you know that we've been a strong voice and at the leading edge of this discussion about nuclear for years, I'm not reminding you of the history to tell you that we are right all along. That's not important right now. What's important is this: As you evaluate our company, our ESG bonafides and our staying power for decades, we believe that it is more evident than ever that we operate the clean energy assets that America needs to battle through the climate crisis. So as we all step back and look at the windshield of the future of energy policy and ESG considerations, we believe that Constellation is perfectly positioned to benefit from the continuation and expansion of policy support and should be a central part of the ESG interest. As I said at analyst day, ESG is not a bolt-on here. It's a strategy that we intend to grow. That is why in our first quarter, we established a sustainability council filled with leaders across the company to advise us on ESG issues. We launched nine employee research groups, sponsored by members of the executive committee, and these groups demonstrate our core value of respect, belonging and diversity by bringing people together, respecting what makes us different and special, while promoting inclusion at the best energy workforce in America. They also support learning and development of our people. Finally, we continue to strengthen our workforce. The photo that you see here on this slide is of the Simeon Career Academy electricity class at our Braidwood Clean Energy Center. Simeon is a public location high school on the south side of Chicago, which provides college prep and career-focused education. Its student body is diverse, filled with many African-Americans and other groups that historically have not proportionately benefited from the jobs and economic opportunity in the energy field. At Constellation, we're determined to make this change. What I think is really cool here about this photo and what I've seen time and time again in my career, is this concept that you can't be what you can't see. And we have here African-American leaders, managers here at the company, teaching African-American students about careers in nuclear energy. You can't beat that. As I turn to slide seven, I want to talk a little bit about the generation operating highlights. Overall, we produced 40.4 terawatt hours of carbon-free energy across our nuclear and renewable fleet, which avoided approximately 30.2 million metric tons of CO2 during the quarter. Nuclear had a 93% capacity factor, and performed three outages averaging each 22 days, well below the industry average. As you know, one of the ways that we manage cost after the Texas events last year was to push some work into this year. So our outages this spring were a bit more complicated than usual as we had to do some catch-up work. We did a good job getting after that work, and we have to date completed our most difficult planned outages for the year, and we are happy to have it successfully behind us as we headed into the summer. The fall outages we have planned for later in the year are the easier ones. Good work by nuclear there. Our Texas fleet ran well during the winter, even during the extreme weather we saw in February. And overall, we had a 99.4% power dispatch match rate during the quarter. In my view, we validated last year's weatherization work on the Texas fleet, and we're done with those expenses. Finally, our wind and solar fleet had an energy capture of 96.1%, again exceeding our plan. Turning to slide eight. Our commercial business performed very well during the quarter and delivered energy solutions to customers, both new and old. During the quarter, we delivered 53 terawatt hours of wholesale and retail energy to our customers across the United States. On this slide, we show our trailing 12-month average win rates for power and gas and our renewal rates for power. As you can see, we've had a great deal of success in winning new customers and even more success retaining customers due to our product offerings and strong customer relationships. I'm not surprised that we didn't miss a beat here in the business. But look, it's very good to know that we retained and expanded relationships as we separated from Exelon. Our customers continue to look to us to provide solutions to help them meet decarbonization goals. We executed long-term deals with Comcast and Sheetz to provide them with renewable energy. These deals support 350 megawatts of new renewable generation being built, represent 12% of Comcast power needs for its operations, and will supply 70% of Sheetz' entire Pennsylvania needs, with nationally -- with national recs that are energy matched. Great work there. Turning to slide nine. At analyst day, we talked about how nuclear plants could do more than just supply carbon-free electricity to the grid. We can become clean energy centers that can solve the climate crisis by helping to produce the fuels that will help decarbonize other sectors of the economy. I want to talk about hydrogen here. With the right policy support, we've done enough work now to believe that nuclear power plants will be the most competitive place in America to produce clean hydrogen. As we speak, we are completing the construction of our first electrolyzer project in New York under a DOE grant to test the technology. Like many others, we believe that clean hydrogen will play an incredibly important role in mitigating that -- the air pollution that is causing the climate crisis and the local health issues in the communities that we serve. Hydrogen can be used to create clean aviation fuels to reduce air pollution, reduce emissions in steel manufacturing and other industrial processes. It can be used to power fuel cells that power long-haul trucking, and even to create fertilizers and other clean agricultural products. The opportunities for clean hydrogen are almost limitless. And again, we think we can make it at our plans cheaper and more effectively than any other place in the U.S. For the past six months, we've been working with a diverse set of public and private partners to develop a bid for a hydrogen hub, powered by nuclear energy and funded under the grants that were included as part of the bipartisan infrastructure build. We'll have a lot more to say about this as we get closer to fruition, closer, frankly, to the submission of the bid and you should look for us to provide a more detailed update next quarter. Finally, I want to end with the technology piece here, with a new DOE grant that we received. We were awarded a multimillion-dollar grant to explore using new direct air capture technology, so-called DAC technology, direct air capture, that would help scrape carbon out of the air using our cooling towers at the clean energy centers. It's pretty cool how it works. Occidental has created a new membrane that will install in the cooling towers of our power plants. It's got a material that chemically interacts with high moisture, higher temperature air. And as the water vapor from our cooling towers passes over the membranes, the membranes actually trap the CO2 in the year and could then be extracted. We expect this process will allow us to capture up to 250,000 tons of carbon dioxide each year, which will do something really unique at our nuclear power plants. These clean energy centers won't be -- won't just be this place where we produce as much clean energy as anywhere in the planet in a concentrated basis, but they'll actually allow us to remove CO2. So we'll be able to go net negative at these clean energy centers, and we'll be able to use that technology to meet our 2030 and 2040 emissions goals. Then lastly, on the commercial side, I want to say that we announced our five-year collaboration with Microsoft for that 24/7, 365-day energy real-time matching solution. By combining renewable energy, clean energy, with exciting new battery storage, fuel cells, hydrogen technologies, we're going to be able to provide our customers with a real-time data-driven accounting solution that matches their consumption of clean energy with the production of clean energy on a geographic and time standpoint. As we develop the product, we'll be working with Microsoft to give customers a transparent and independently verified view of their sustainability efforts. We've also been working with the RTOs. In particular, we work with PJM and others to ensure that their systems give us the geographic and timestamp data so that we can match renewables and clean energy generation with the consumption by our governmental and commercial customers. We expect PJM to provide load matching data to members this year. That's important because we're not going to be able to decarbonize the power sector with clean energy until we have the capability to do with clean energy, what we've been doing with energy since the dawn of electricity. That's matched consumption to production. I want to thank PJM for acting upon our request and leaning into this body of work. And finally, before I turn it over to Dan, I'm going to touch on slide 10 to reiterate our capital allocation strategy. We intend to deliver value to our shareholders through our capital allocation strategy and through a very disciplined strategy of capital management. We are committed to maintaining strong investment-grade credit ratings, which provide us a competitive advantage. We will provide a $180 million annual dividend growing at 10% per year. As I said, we awarded the first dividend in the first quarter. We believe that there are opportunities to grow our business organically and inorganically, and we will seek opportunities that exceed a double-digit return threshold and will deliver value over the long term to you, our owners. And where we don't find these opportunities, or where they do not meet the thresholds, we will give money back to you, our owners, through special dividends or share buybacks. As I mentioned on analyst day, we'll provide you with that clarity on exactly how we will return value in the back half of the year. And with that, let me flip it to Dan for his update.Dan Eggers -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Joe, and good morning, everyone. Today, I will cover our first quarter results, power and gas markets, and provide an update on our gross margin disclosures and balance sheet. Starting with slide 11. We delivered strong financial results in our first quarter as a stand-alone company. We earned $866 million in adjusted EBITDA, which is up nearly $1.3 billion year over year. These strong results reflect the absence of Winter storm Uri from last year, which is a $1.2 billion EBITDA impact. This number is consistent with the first quarter 2021 impact of Exelon Generation of $0.90 per share on the Exelon share count, or approximately $880 million after tax. We also benefited from higher hedge prices in the first part of this year, with the reversal of retirements of Byron and Dresden in September, we're able to sell that output at higher prices, providing some timing favorability before the CMC contracts go into effect in June. We should see some of this benefit continue over the first two months of the second quarter as well. Our commercial business captured value through optimizing the portfolio, and strong new business execution during this period of higher prices. Nuclear fuel amortization expense was lower in the first quarter of 2022 relative to 2021, primarily due to the absence of accelerated amortization following the reversals of the buyer and interest in retirements. Lower capacity revenues reflect less volumes clearing, particularly in the Midwest, and we faced additional costs for nuclear outages as we catch up from our COVID- and Uri-related maintenance deferrals that Joe referenced. We are reaffirming our full year adjusted EBITDA guidance range of $2.35 billion to $2.75 billion. As you think about full year expectations, in the first quarter, we benefited from some unique opportunities, including the expected stronger power price realizations at Byron and Dresden, and some timing opportunities in the commercial business. Also, we ended the year fully hedged in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. And as I'll discuss in a few minutes, are now fully hedged across our portfolio, which limits the impact of rising prices in 2022, but they're showing up in our 2023 disclosures. Turning to slide 12. As you know, we have seen a dramatic rise in natural gas and power prices over the last 12 months or so. both in the prompt year and also across the 23 to 25 forward price curves, which you can see on these charts. Starting with Henry Hub natural gas prices, forwards have increased on average $0.75 per million BTU since the beginning of the year through March 31 and $1.50 since the beginning of 2021. As of Tuesday, spot gas was $6.49 per million BTU, and forwards in '23 are at $5.25, levels we have not seen since 2008. The increase in gas prices are driven by a combination of growing demand post COVID, lower storage levels and a tight supply and demand balance in the domestic natural gas market. In addition, the tragedy in the Ukraine has exacerbated the rise in gas prices as the EU and the U.K. look to replenish, depleted storage and find other sources of supply outside Russia. Unfortunately, for those involved, we do not see a change in these dynamics in the near term at the very least, and expect higher natural gas prices to continue. As you know, higher fuel costs will have a significant impact on the price of power. The continued rise of both natural gas and coal prices have certainly supported higher power prices out the curve. Power prices are further being supported by a number of other factors, including clean air regulations expected to increase allowance prices in some of our key markets, and the continued retirement of coal units. As you can see in the charts, 2023 NiHub and West Hub forwards are 80% to 100% higher since January of 2021. Turning to hedging. We've increased our hedge position since last quarter that can be put into two primary buckets. First, with these upward moves in prices, we have used the flexibility in our ratable hedging program to lock in more forward sales for 2023 and beyond. Locking in these prices reduces the volatility in our earnings outlook, provides more certainty to future earnings and cash flows, and provides us with greater visibility and confidence in future capital allocation decisions. Second, our New York hedge position is considerably higher than last year -- last quarter, which reflects the interplay of the New York ZEC program and forward prices. We have a refresher on the New York ZEC program on slide 18, but in simple terms, the New York ZECs were designed with the consumer protection mechanism that adjust the ZEC prices as we cross revenue thresholds, which we are now projecting for tranche four that begins in April 2023 for the next two-year term. At current prices, we are effectively fully hedged for our New York output over the tranche frac term. With that context, looking at 2023, we are now 86% to 89% hedged on a fleetwide basis, which is between 11% to 14% higher than where we are hedged on the analyst day. And while we do not show it here, you're safe to assume that we have increased our 2024 hedge position by a similar amount, which reflects both our normal hedging activity and the New York ZEC effect. As a reminder, the carbon mitigation credits in Illinois represent approximately 27% of our hedge position in each year of the contract. Moving to our gross margin update on slide 13, and I should note, these numbers are calibrated at March 31 to the prices and positions. As you may recall, the gross margin table that we shared at our analyst day in January were based on November 30 forward prices, but we included a $50 million downward adjustment in our EBITDA guidance to reflect the drop in prices during December. Accounting for these prices, total gross margin would have been $7.3 billion for 2022. Looking at the chart, you can see the total gross margin for 2022 is unchanged accounting for this adjustment. Open gross margin is up significantly since analyst day due to the higher prices across all regions, which is then offset by the mark-to-market of our hedges. We had strong performance across power and non-power new business, executing $250 million of power new business and $150 million in non-power during the quarter. As I referenced on the last slide, we are now effectively 100% hedged for 2022, so power price news are having very limited impact on our results at this point. In 2023, total gross margin is up $300 million since analyst day, the $7.95 billion, driven by higher prices in all regions. We executed $150 million in power and non-power new business. Contracted revenues decreased by $50 million, driven by the interplay of current higher prices and the dynamics of setting the ZEC level for the next tranche of the New York ZEC program, which I said begins in April 2023. These higher prices resulted in a decline in the ZEC level itself but is offset by higher power prices that are showing up in our open gross margin calculation. Turning to the financing and liquidity update on slide 15. As Joe said, our investment-grade credit rating is the cornerstone of our financial policy. -- investment-grade ratings and a strong balance sheet provide us with many competitive advantages, including ample access to liquidity and the ability to participate in customer channels like wholesale load auctions and provides flexibility in how we provide credit support, such as using penal guarantees in lieu of letters of credit. Our credit metrics remain very strong and are well above agency thresholds. Following separation, S&P raised their outlook from stable to positive, and Moody's from negative to stable, both while reaffirming ratings at BBB minus and Baa2, respectively. Since separation, we have retired or paid down nearly $2.5 billion of long-term debt and term loans, which completed our debt paid out for the next two years. We saw opportunities to accelerate our debt reduction this quarter and pulled forward a $523 million senior note due to be retired in June, and then in April, we paid off the $880 million term loan originally due in August for the CENG acquisition. Given the sharp horizon commodity prices and higher volatility we've received a lot of questions about our collateral position. So I'm going to spend a moment on it. First and foremost, our investment-grade credit ratings provide significant advantages to our liquidity and our ability to run the business. In the bottom left chart, you can see we have access to $5.7 billion in liquidity facilities and use less than half of our availability, leaving ample capacity for times of stress. You will also see in our 10-Q that we have a cash position as of March 31 of $1.6 billion, much like you saw on our September 30 financials last fall, we have benefited from significant cash collateral postings to us, driven by the dramatic rise in gas and power prices during the quarter. As a reminder, we saw a significant amount of generation directly to customers through our retail and wholesale channels, limiting the amount of transactions across the exchanges, which thereby reduces our collateral needs when prices move in either direction. This arrangement positions us differently from some market participants. So let me now answer the question as to why so much cash collateral came into us again this quarter. Two primary reasons. One, we saw a significant amount of gas to our customers. Unlike power, we have generation length, we are naturally short natural gas because we don't produce the physical molecules. We procure the gas may execute the sale to a customer, and given our contracting cycle, we procured gas at much lower levels than the market today. These rising prices have, in turn, required counterparties to post cash collateral to us. And two, we participate in some power markets where we have more loads than generation length with New England being a good example, because we have procured power for these customer obligations as prices rise, the counterparties, again, need to post to us. The combination of these two positions leads to the much higher cash balances that you see in our 10-Q. For those calibrating your models excluding these cash collateral movements, we'd still point you to a year-end net debt balance in the low $5 billion range, which would be consistent with the credit metrics on this page, assuming our free cash available for allocation is used for purposes other than incremental debt pay down. I'd like to now turn the call back to Joe for his closing remarks.Joe Dominguez -- President and Chief Executive Officer Yes. Thanks, Dan, for that good comprehensive summary. Look, as I think about the last quarter, I'm going to flip to slide 15, you're familiar with our value proposition. But the things that were important for us were to get the separation done, demonstrate that we continue the performance and the commercial business and the other operating businesses to the same levels are better. than what we had done when we were all part of Exelon. We've certainly benefited from some of the changing fundamentals around natural gas and coal. And well, I'm sure we'll get questions about our long-term views. I think it's safe to say that the short-term market, the 12- to 18-month market is something that is heavily influenced by a lot of behaviors. But we've seen fundamental changes. We're not going to go back to the gas price and coal price environment that we saw just really, frankly, 12 to 18 months ago. And that provides strong support for nuclear. I talked a little bit about policy where we have gotten some successes at the state level, and we're obviously still waiting on the federal government. Here's what we believe. Given the importance of nuclear energy, we don't think there will be an energy package that happens this year or anywhere down the road that isn't going to include nuclear energy. And that's a C-change difference. And when you're an owner of this company, that's an option you have. Talked a little bit about the technical optionality we see with the nuclear plants becoming clean energy centers, where we can power the grid, but we could do much, much more than that. We capture carbon at the sites, and we can make other hydrogen-related products at the sites that I think are going to be competitive advantages for years to come. You've seen a lot of supply chain issues, inflationary pressures occurring to other businesses. I'm not saying we're immune from those things. But certainly, given the composition of our fleet, and the fact that our costs aren't rising with the oil and gas and coal costs certainly to the same degree as others gives us, again, a competitive advantage. And then, finally, Look, we're going to manage this business in a very disciplined way, both with regard to growth, but also the balance sheet itself. Dan talked about that balance sheet giving us a competitive advantage and it has we're seeing margin expansion as others who frankly don't have the same balance sheet capability really having to increase margins, and we're getting the upside of that. So I like where we're at here at the end of the first quarter. We have hedged into higher-priced markets. And frankly, our objective is to ensure that we hit the targets we've given to the Street or do better. And so, we've hedged and we've continued to hedge, as Dan said, into '24 and beyond, into the higher prices that we like to see. I'm sure you'll have some questions about that. But I like where we are positioned. So with that, let me flip it back to you for your specific questions. As I said, the senior team here is ready to answer. 