
OperatorThank you for standing by, and welcome to LabCorp Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions].I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Chas Cook. Thank you, please go ahead, sir.Chas Cook -- Investor RelationsThank you, operator. Good morning, and welcome to Labcorp's first quarter 2021 conference call. As detailed in today's press release, there will be a replay of this conference call available via telephone and Internet. With me today are Adam Schechter, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn Eisenberg, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.This morning, in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.labcorp.com, we posted both our press release and in Investor Relations presentation with additional information on our business and operations, which include a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the GAAP financial measures discussed during today's call.Additionally, we are making forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to our estimated 2021 guidance and the related assumptions, including the projected impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the company's businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition, our responses to and the expected future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business more generally as well as on general economic, business and market conditions.Each of the forward-looking statements is based upon our current expectations and is subject to change based upon various factors, many of which are beyond our control that could affect our financial results. Some of these factors are set forth in detail in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and in the company's other filings with the SEC. We have no obligation to provide any updates to these forward-looking statements even if our expectations change.Now I'll turn the call over to Adam Schechter.Adam H. Schechter -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Chas. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. Our focus continues to be on bringing innovations to market that help improve people's health and lives. As you'll see from our first quarter results, doing so can generate strong growth and returns for our shareholders. I'm going to begin by covering our overall performance in the first quarter, which is very strong across all of our businesses.Revenue increased 47% versus the same period in 2020. While a good amount of growth can be attributed to COVID testing, we also delivered 15% year-over-year growth in our base business. In Diagnostics and Drug Development, base business revenue increased 8% and 24%, respectively, from the prior year. Our drug development book-to-bill remains very strong and reached 1.47 for the trailing 12 months. Our adjusted EPS of $8.79 represents significant growth from last year. And we generated $1.1 billion of free cash flow in the quarter. That's up from $97 million in the first quarter of 2020. Our first quarter results and our improved outlook for the year enabled us to increase our full-year guidance.We're also encouraged to see that patients continue to return to the pre-pandemic healthcare teams as well as our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers resuming their important research and development work. Our first quarter results demonstrate Labcorp's strong position in both diagnostics and drug development. We continue to play a central role in helping healthcare professionals assess a patient's health and deciding appropriate treatment options. We're also aiding in the development of treatments and cures that are critically important for the future.Now I'm going to turn to our response to COVID. As you know, Labcorp's capabilities in testing and drug development have been critical to the pandemic response. Our fight against this virus is not over, but we are thankfully seeing a reduction in cases from pandemic eyes especially in the United States. And with that, our COVID testing volume has declined. While we can't fully predict how the pandemic will evolve as the year goes on, we are confident in our ability to leverage the considerable experience and expertise that we've gained over the last year to continue to build on our leading COVID testing and treatment capabilities.Our scientists are developing new testing solutions. We have sufficient capacity to serve our customers, and our teams continue to support important COVID science and trials. We're also proud to be a part of getting people back to work, to school and to life. Our employer services team offers testing and vaccination services to support workplace and community safety. Our recently announced offering for small businesses can help employers, including restaurants reopen.Since the onset of the pandemic, we've been focused on serving all communities, including underserved populations. This quarter, we furthered let commitment in a partnership with the State of North Carolina to provide Pixel COVID home kits at no cost to underserved communities. Additionally, our Walgreens partnership expanded to include new integrated digital experiences available to all Walgreens customers and access to our Pixel Home Kit in over 6,000 locations. We're also helping patients securely access their results through their personal devices and apps like Common Health and Common Pass. Finally, we're continuing our important work for the CDC to genetically sequence approximately 5,000 virus samples every week in order to identify variance.Now I'll provide several updates to our strategy. In the quarter, as we delivered growth in our base business and we responded to the needs of our customers in a pandemic, We also made progress in advancing our strategy. In our essential laboratory business, which supports trials across many therapeutic areas, we continue to automate our processes using robotics and proprietary analytics. Our investments in our central labs business will enable us to increase our productivity, create resiliency in our supply chain and better meet the needs of our customers.We recently opened a new automated clinical trial kit production facility in Belgium. We expect that to eventually double our capacity. The facility will offer faster kit delivery, more flexible ordering, and reduced transportation costs for biopharma clients and clinical trial investigator sites across Europe, Middle East and Africa. We're also advancing our position in oncology by strengthening our leadership team and investing in this important area where novel diagnostic testing and better treatments are needed around the world.Our science and technology continue to be critical to Labcorp's success and future growth. We made continuing strides during the first quarter and developing future tests for cancer, Alzheimer's disease, autoimmune and liver disease. We also increased access to testing and trials through telemedicine, pharmacies, employers, home kits and our decentralized clinical trial capabilities.In fact, our continued scientific and technology advancements were recognized by Fast Company, which named us one of the world's most innovative companies for 2021. This accolade is great recognition for Labcorp's talented teams who are resilient, fast and agile. It's a testament to our company's ability to adapt and thrive in a rapidly changing environment.In closing, as announced in March, the Board and leadership team are undertaking a review of the company's structure and capital allocation strategy. The goal is to ensure we are best positioned to unlock shareholder value while continuing to support the patients and the customers who rely upon us around the world. This process will take time, and there will be no updates until a conclusion is reached.Our team is focused. We're focused on delivering on our mission of improving health and improving lives, which we believe drive strong shareholder returns. I want to thank our more than 70,000 employees around the world who continue to rise to the occasion. We look forward to brighter days ahead as vaccines continue to roll out. And I remain very confident in our strength across our businesses as we move forward.With that, I'll turn it over to GlennGlenn A. Eisenberg -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Adam. I'm going to start my comments with a review of our first quarter results, followed by a discussion of our performance in each segment, and conclude with an update on our 2021 full-year guidance.Revenue for the quarter was $4.2 billion, an increase of 47.4% over last year due to organic revenue growth of 45%, acquisitions of 0.9%, and favorable foreign currency translation of 140 basis points. The increase in organic revenue was driven by COVID testing of 32.9% and organic base business growth of 12.2%. Operating income for the quarter was $1.1 billion or 25.4% of revenue.During the quarter, we had $32 million of restructuring charges and special items, primarily due to COVID-related costs and acquisition integration charges. We also had $92 million of amortization, which was higher than last year due to the accelerated amortization of the Covance trade name related to our previously announced branding initiative.Adjusted operating income in the quarter was $1.2 billion or 28.4% of revenue compared to $366 million or 12.9% last year. The increase in adjusted operating income and margin was primarily due to COVID testing, organic base business growth, acquisitions and LaunchPad savings, partially offset by higher personnel costs.The tax rate for the quarter was 24.6%. The adjusted tax rate, excluding restructuring charges, special items and amortization, was 24.5% compared to 25.3% last year. The lower adjusted tax rate was primarily due to the geographic mix of earnings. We continue to expect our full-year adjusted tax rate to be approximately 25%. Net earnings for the quarter were $770 million or $7.82 per diluted share. Adjusted EPS, which exclude amortization, restructuring charges and special items, were $8.79 in the quarter, up from $2.37 last year.Operating cash flow was $1.2 billion in the quarter compared to $204 million a year ago. The increase in operating cash flow was due to higher cash earnings and lower working capital requirements. Capital expenditures totaled $95 million or 2.3% of revenue compared to $107 million or 3.8% of revenue last year. As a result, free cash flow was $1.1 billion in the quarter compared to $97 million last year. During the quarter, we paid down $375 million of debt, invested $34 million in acquisitions and repurchased $69 million of stock. At quarter end, the company had $732 million remaining of its board authorized share repurchase program.Now I'll review our segment performance, beginning with Diagnostics. Revenue for the quarter was $2.8 billion, an increase of 62% compared to last year, driven by COVID testing of 54.5% and base business growth of 7.5%. The base business growth was primarily driven by organic growth of 6.3%, which includes the negative impact of weather of approximately 2%. Relative to the first quarter of 2019, the compounded annual growth rate for the base business revenue was 2.7% and was primarily due to organic growth.Total volume increased 27.3% over last year, primarily due to organic volume growth of 26.6%. The increase in organic volume was due to the contribution from COVID testing volumes of 27.9%, partially offset by a reduction in organic base business of 1.3%, which was negatively impacted by weather of approximately 2%. As a reminder, we do not include hospital lab management agreements in our volume, which would have added approximately 1.3% to organic base business volume growth. Price/mix increased 34.7% over last year, driven by COVID testing of 26.6% and a favorable mix in the organic base business of 7.5%, which was primarily due to higher test per accession.Diagnostics adjusted operating income for the quarter was $992 million or 36% of revenue compared to $254 million or 14.9% last year. The increase in adjusted operating income and margin was primarily due to COVID testing, organic base business demand and LaunchPad savings, partially offset by higher personnel costs. Diagnostics 3-year LaunchPad initiative remains on track to deliver approximately $200 million of net savings by the end of 2021.Now I'll review the performance of Drug Development. Revenue for the quarter was $1.4 billion, an increase of 25.7% compared to last year due to organic growth of 21.9%, acquisitions of 1% and favorable foreign currency translation of 290 basis points. The increase in organic revenue was due to base business growth of 19.7% and a 2.2% contribution from COVID testing performed through its central lab business. Drug Development delivered broad-based revenue growth across all businesses, including COVID vaccine and therapeutic studies. And relative to the first quarter of 2019, the compounded annual growth rate for the base business revenue was 14.7% and was primarily driven by organic growth.Adjusted operating income for the segment was $234 million or 16.3% of revenue compared to $151 million or 13.2% last year. The increase in adjusted operating income and margins were primarily due to organic base business demand, COVID testing and LaunchPad savings, partially offset by higher personnel costs. The company continues to develop and execute new LaunchPad programs to support profitable growth in Drug Development.For the trailing 12 months, net orders and net book-to-bill remained strong at $7.6 billion and 1.47, respectively. Backlog at the end of the quarter was $14 billion, an increase of approximately $210 million from last quarter. We expect approximately $4.6 billion of this backlog to convert into revenue over the next 12 months.Now I'll discuss our 2021 full-year guidance, which assumes foreign exchange rates effective as of March 31, 2021, for the full year. We are raising our full-year guidance to reflect the company's strong first quarter performance and improved outlook for the remainder of the year for both our Diagnostics and Drug Development base businesses.We expect enterprise level revenue to grow 2% to 6.5% from our prior guidance of minus 1% to plus 4.5%. This includes the benefit from foreign currency translation of 70 basis points. This guidance range also includes the expectation that the base business will now grow 13.5% to 16%, up from prior guidance of 11% to 13.5%. The revenue guidance on the contribution from COVID testing is unchanged at down 35% to 50%. However, current estimates are less favorable than the midpoint of the range.We are raising our expectations for revenue in Diagnostics of flat to minus 5% from prior guidance of minus 0.5% to minus 7.5%. This guidance range includes the expectation that the base business will now grow 13.5% to 16%, given our first quarter performance and improved outlook, and we continue to expect COVID testing revenue again to decline 35% to 50%.We're also raising our growth expectations for revenue in Drug Development to 12% to 14% from prior guidance of 8% to 10.5%. Our current guidance includes the benefit from foreign currency translation of 140 basis points. This guidance range also includes the expectation that the base business will now grow 14% to 16%, reflecting strong first quarter broad-based performance and an improved outlook.Given the improved top line growth expectation of our base businesses, we're now raising our adjusted EPS guidance to $20 to $24, up from prior guidance of $19 to $23. Free cash flow is now expected to be between $1.8 billion and $2 billion, up from prior guidance of $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion. Our earnings guidance assumes we will use our free cash flow for acquisitions and share repurchases, which we expect to accelerate in the second quarter. We continue to expect the capital expenditures will be approximately 4% of revenue, driven by investments to support base business growth and productivity.For additional comparison purposes, we have also included in our supplemental deck on our Investor Relations website, a view of our 2021 first quarter results and full year guidance compared to our 2019 results.In summary, the company had another quarter of strong performance. We remain focused on performing a critical role in response to the global pandemic, while also managing our base business. And as we progress through 2021, we expect to drive continued profitable growth in our base business as COVID testing volumes are expected to decline over the remainder of the year. We expect to continue to use our free cash flow generation for acquisitions that supplement our organic growth while also returning capital to shareholders. [Technical Issues].OperatorOkay. Are you there?Glenn A. Eisenberg -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThere we go, operator. We can hear you.OperatorSorry about that. I don't know what happened. You could continue.Glenn A. Eisenberg -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerOkay. I think we've completed our formal remarks, and we're now ready to take questions.