  OperatorHello. Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the second quarter 2022 TransDigm Group Inc. earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jaimie Stemen, director of investor relations. Please go ahead.Jaimie Stemen -- Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and welcome to TransDigm's fiscal 2022 second quarter earnings conference call. Presenting on the call this morning are TransDigm president and chief executive officer, Kevin Stein; chief operating officer, Jorge Valladares; and chief financial officer, Mike Lisman. Please visit our website at transdigm.com to obtain a supplemental slide deck and call replay information. Before we begin, the company would like to remind you that statements made during this call, which are not historical in fact, are forward-looking statements. For further information about important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the company's latest filings with the SEC available through the Investors section of our website or at sec.gov. The company would also like to advise you that during the course of the call, we will be referring to EBITDA, specifically EBITDA as defined, adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share all of which are non-GAAP financial measures. Please see the tables and related footnotes in the earnings release for a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and applicable reconciliations. I will now turn the call over to Kevin.Kevin Stein -- President and Chief Executive Officer Good morning from Cleveland, and thanks for calling in today. First, I'll start off with the usual quick overview of our strategy, a few comments about the quarter and discussion of our fiscal 2022 outlook. Then Jorge and Mike will give additional color on the quarter. To reiterate, we are unique in the industry in both the consistency of our strategy in good times and bad, as well as our steady focus on intrinsic shareholder value creation through all phases of the aerospace cycle.

 



 To summarize, here are some of the reasons why we believe this. About 90% of our net sales are generated by unique proprietary products. Most of our EBITDA comes from aftermarket revenues, which generally have significantly higher margins and over any extended period have typically provided relative stability in the downturns. We follow a consistent long-term strategy specifically. We own and operate proprietary aerospace businesses with significant aftermarket content. We utilize a simple, well-proven, value-based operating methodology. We have a decentralized organizational structure and unique compensation system closely aligned with shareholders. We acquire businesses that fit this strategy and where we see a clear path to PE-like returns. Our capital structure and allocations are a key part of our value creation methodology. Our long-standing goal is to give our shareholders private equity-like returns with the liquidity of a public market. To do this, we stay focused on both the details of value creation, as well as careful allocation of our capital. As you saw from our earnings release, we had another good quarter considering the market environment. We continue to see recovery in the commercial aerospace market and are encouraged by the trends in air traffic among other factors. Our Q2 results show positive growth in comparison to the same period in 2021 as we are lapping the second fiscal quarter of '21, which was heavily impacted by the pandemic and then relative availability of vaccines. Although our results have improved, they continue to be unfavorably affected in comparison to pre-pandemic levels as the demand for air travel remains depressed. However, the continued steady improvement in global air traffic is encouraging.

 



 There was a slight pullback in flight traffic in January as a result of the Omicron variant after strong December holiday travel, but traffic has continued to progress forward since then. It further illustrates the pent-up demand for air travel and bodes well for the continued momentum of the commercial aerospace recovery throughout 2022. To date, the recovery has remained primarily driven by domestic leisure travel, though international travel is slowly improving as many governments across the world have softened or fully lifted travel restrictions. China continues to be a watch point as both international and domestic traffic in China is near COVID lows due to strict zero COVID policies limiting travel. In our business, we saw another quarter of sequential improvement in our total commercial aftermarket revenues and bookings with both up approximately 10% over Q1 of fiscal 2022. I am very pleased that despite this challenging commercial environment, our EBITDA as defined margin was 47.7% in the quarter. Contributing to this strong margin is the continued recovery in our commercial aftermarket revenues, as well as the careful management of our cost structure and focus on our operating strategy. This was achieved despite the Omicron variant impacting travel in the beginning of Q2 and the sharp drop-off in China air traffic during the quarter. Additionally, we continue to generate cash in Q2. We had operating cash flow generation of almost $90 million and closed the quarter with a little over $4.2 billion of cash. We expect to steadily generate significant additional cash throughout the remainder of 2022. Next, an update on our capital allocation activities and priorities. I am happy to report that during Q2, we opportunistically deployed $667 million of capital via open market repurchases of our common stock. This equates to approximately 1 million of our shares at an average price of $637 per share. We view these repurchases like any other capital investment and expect this will meet or exceed our long-term return objectives. Mike will address this more later. Also during the quarter, we agreed to acquire DART Aerospace for approximately $360 million in cash. DART is a leading provider of highly engineered unique helicopter solutions that mainly service civilian aircraft. DART is expected to generate approximately $100 million in pro forma revenue for the calendar year ending December 31, 2022, and it fits well with our proprietary and aftermarket focused value generation strategy. The acquisition is currently expected to close during the second half of our fiscal 2022. Pro forma for the closing of the DART acquisition, we still expect to have a sizable cash balance of close to $4 billion. This assumes announced share repurchases and DART closing, which together allocates approximately $1 billion of capital for value-generating investments. We continue to evaluate our capital allocation options regarding additional acquisitions, share buybacks and dividends. All three options remain on the table, each individually but then also potentially in some combination over the next nine months or so. Any significant M&A, share buyback and/or dividend activity will still leave the company with substantial liquidity and the financial flexibility to deal with any currently anticipated capital requirements or other opportunities in the readily foreseeable future. We continue to look at possible M&A opportunities and are always attentive to our capital allocation. Both the M&A and capital markets are always difficult to predict but especially so in these times. Regarding the current M&A pipeline, we are actively looking for M&A opportunities that fit our model. Acquisition opportunity activity continues to accelerate and is approaching pre-COVID levels. We have a decent pipeline of possibilities as usual, mostly in the small and midsize range. I cannot predict or comment on possible closings. We remain confident that there is a long runway for acquisitions that fit our portfolio. Now moving to our outlook for 2022. We are still not in a position to provide full financial guidance as a result of the continued disruption in our primary commercial end markets. We continue to be encouraged by the recovery we have seen in our commercial OEM and aftermarket revenues and the strong bookings received for both thus far in fiscal 2022. At this time, we expect to reinitiate guidance on the November 2022 earnings call for our new fiscal year, assuming prevailing conditions continue to evolve favorably. We continue to expect COVID-19 to have an adverse impact on our financial results compared to pre-pandemic levels throughout the remainder of fiscal 2022 under the assumption that both our commercial OEM and aftermarket customer demand will remain depressed due to lower worldwide air travel, although recent positive trends in commercial air traffic could impact us favorably. With regard to internal planning, our teams are now resource planning for commercial aftermarket revenue to grow ahead of the 20% to 30% sizing range previously provided. We expect our commercial OEM revenue to grow significantly as well but at a rate less than the commercial aftermarket rate of growth. As you know, we aim to be conservative. As for the defense market, we still expect defense revenue growth in the low single-digit percent range for fiscal 2022 versus prior year despite the slow first half of the year. Jorge will provide more color on our defense end market. As you know, this end market can often be quite lumpy on a quarterly basis. We now expect full year fiscal 2022 EBITDA margin to be approaching 48% due to the rate of commercial aftermarket recovery. We anticipate EBITDA margins will continue to move up throughout the second half of our fiscal year. As a note, this margin guidance includes the unfavorable headwind of our Cobham acquisition of about 0.5% this year. We believe we are well positioned for the second half of fiscal 2022. As usual, we'll closely watch the aerospace and capital markets and see how they develop and react accordingly. Mike will provide details on other fiscal 2022 financial assumptions and updates. Let me conclude by stating that I'm pleased with the company's performance in this period of gradual recovery for the commercial aerospace industry and with our commitment to driving value for our stakeholders. We remain focused on executing our operating strategy and managing our cost structure as we continue on this path to a full recovery of the commercial aerospace industry. We look forward to the remainder of fiscal 2022 and the opportunity to continue to create value for our stakeholders through our consistent strategy. Now let me hand it over to Jorge to review our recent performance and a few other items.Jorge Valladares -- Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Kevin. I'll start with our typical review of results by key market category. For the remainder of the call, I will provide color commentary on a pro forma basis compared to the prior year period in 2021, that is assuming we own the same mix of businesses in both periods. Any acquisitions are included in both periods and the impact of any divestitures is removed in both periods. In the commercial market, which typically makes up close to 65% of our revenue, we will split our discussion into OEM and aftermarket. Our total commercial OEM revenue increased approximately 28% in Q2 compared with the prior year period. Bookings in the quarter were strong compared to the same prior year period and again significantly outpaced sales. Sequentially, bookings improved almost 10% compared to Q1 with sales improving almost 15%. While we expect demand for our commercial OEM products to continue to be reduced in the short term, we are encouraged by build rates gradually progressing at the commercial OEMs. Now moving on to our commercial aftermarket business discussion. Total commercial aftermarket revenue increased by approximately 46% in Q2 when compared with the prior year period. Growth in commercial aftermarket revenue was primarily driven by increased demand in our passenger submarket, which is our largest submarket, although all of our commercial aftermarket submarkets were up significantly compared to prior year Q2. Sequentially, total commercial aftermarket revenues and bookings both grew by approximately 10%. Commercial aftermarket bookings were up this quarter compared to the same prior year period, and Q2 bookings strongly outpaced sales. To touch on a few key points of consideration, global revenue passenger miles remained depressed. There was a modest sequential decline in revenue passenger miles in January due to the Omicron variant and a tough comparison to December holiday travel. However, revenue passenger miles have continued to improve since January. The limited impact on air travel from the Omicron variant, along with the Russia-Ukraine conflict, which began at the end of February, demonstrates the strong underlying demand and willingness of passengers to travel. This provides optimism for the pace of the recovery of air traffic in the remainder of 2022. IATA also recently stated that based on the current recovery momentum, they expect passenger traffic to return to pre-pandemic levels in 2023, which is a year earlier than previously forecast. The recovery in domestic travel continues to be more resilient than international. In the most recently reported IATA traffic data for March, domestic air travel was only down 23% and compared to pre-pandemic, while international travel was down about 50%. The U.S. and Europe continue to show strong demand for domestic travel, although China has been more volatile due to its zero COVID policies, which caused localized lockdowns and rapid drop-offs in air travel. Though the pace of the international air traffic recovery has been slow, it is steadily progressing. And we're hopeful for improvement in international travel in the remainder of 2022. Many of the government imposed travel restrictions have softened or lifted entirely, which is encouraging. Global cargo volumes continue to be strong, although airfreight demand has tempered a bit recently. This trend could continue as the year progresses due to unfavorable impacts on air freight from the lockdowns in China and the Russia-Ukraine conflict. Time will tell. Business jet utilization remains robust. Commentary from business jet OEMs and operators remains positive, and these higher levels of business jet activity appeared likely to continue in the near term. Now let me speak about our defense market, which traditionally is at or below 35% of our total revenue. The defense market revenue, which includes both OEM and aftermarket revenues, decreased by approximately 2% in Q2 when compared with the prior year period. As we've said many times, defense sales and bookings can be lumpy. Similar to Q1, our teams continue to be challenged with supply chain induced delays in fulfilling orders. The supply chain issues primarily surround the lack of availability of electronic components. Our operating units are actively pursuing mitigating actions to overcome these issues. Our defense order book remains strong and bookings this quarter improved 30% sequentially versus Q1. We expect our defense business to expand throughout the remainder of the year. As Kevin mentioned earlier, we continue to expect low single-digit percent range growth in fiscal 2022 for our defense market revenues. I'd like to finish by recognizing the strong efforts of our teams in continuing to overcome the negative impacts of the pandemic and supply chain disruptions. We remained focused on our value drivers and meeting the increased demand for our products. With that, I'd like to turn it over to our chief financial officer, Mike Lisman.Mike Lisman -- Chief Financial Officer Good morning, everyone. I'm going to quickly hit on some additional financial matters for the quarter and also our expectations for the full fiscal year. First, in regard to profitability for our second quarter, EBITDA as defined of about $633 million for Q2 was up 22% versus prior Q2. EBITDA as defined margin in the quarter was approximately 47.7%. This represents a year-over-year improvement in our EBITDA as defined margin of about 420 basis points versus Q2 of last year. Sequentially, the margin increased by 40 basis points versus last quarter, and we expect this improvement trend to continue for the balance of the fiscal year. Next, a few additional comments on select financial metrics for the quarter and again also the full year. Organic growth was 15% for the quarter driven by the rebound in our commercial OEM and aftermarket end markets. On taxes, we're revising our expected adjusted tax rate for this fiscal year downwards slightly to a range of 24% to 26%. Our GAAP and cash tax rate guidance is unchanged and still expected to be in the 21% to 23% range. Moving over to cash and liquidity. We had another quarter of positive free cash flow. Free cash flow, which we traditionally define at TransDigm as EBITDA as defined less cash interest payments, capex and cash taxes was roughly $222 million. As noted in the press release, this amount was slightly lower this quarter, but this is just timing. Specifically, due to the quarter end date of April 2, we picked up an extra cash interest payment that was made on April 1. In addition, we had higher cash tax payments in the quarter. As we mentioned before, cash tax payments and cash interest payments can be lumpy across the quarters. For the full fiscal year, our free cash flow guidance is unchanged from the November earnings call. That is, we still anticipate free cash flow to be in the $1 billion area for the fiscal year, maybe a little better. As Kevin mentioned, we used $667 million of cash to repurchase shares during the quarter at a weighted average purchase price of about $637 per share and ended the quarter with $4.2 billion of cash. In total, we repurchased about 1.05 million shares and did it through an open market repurchase program. We view and model these share repurchases just like any other capital investment such as the acquisition of a new business and expect a similar rate of return. Additionally, in the 10-Q that is filed later today, you'll see that our strong sales rebound resulted in net working capital being a $130 million use of cash this quarter. This resulted in less cash being booked to our balance sheet than in prior quarters. As mentioned previously, we have the cash to fund this investment, and we're glad to see our primary commercial end markets rebounding and therefore, driving this need. As we continue to recover from COVID's impact on air travel and recovered to 2019 global activity levels, we'd expect an additional $200 million to $275 million of cash to go back into net working capital. The timeline over which this will happen remains uncertain but should generally track to recovery. Moving on to leverage levels. Our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is currently at 6.6 times, down from 8.2 times at its peak at the end of our fiscal '21 second quarter. We expect to continue running free cash flow positive for the balance of our 2022 fiscal year. Barring any additional capital markets activities such as dividends or share repurchases, our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio will keep ticking down as the year progresses. We are watching the rising interest rate environment closely. We remain 85% hedged on our $20 billion gross debt balance through a combination of interest rate caps and swaps that go out through calendar year 2025. This provides us adequate cushion against any rise in rates. We have included a supporting sensitivity table in today's slide deck that shows you what our annual cash interest expense will be at a range of three-month LIBOR values. In summary, from an overall cash liquidity and balance sheet standpoint, we remain in good position and well prepared to withstand the still depressed but now rebounding commercial aerospace environment for quite some time. With that, I'll turn it back to the operator to kick off the Q&A. 