  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to the EOG Resources first quarter 2022 earnings results conference call. As a reminder, this call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the chief financial officer of EOG Resources, Mr. Tim Driggers. Please go ahead, sir.Tim Driggers -- Chief Financial Officer

 



 Good morning, and thanks for joining us. This conference call includes forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings. This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Definitions and reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures can be found on EOG's website. This conference call also include estimated resource potential, not necessarily calculated in accordance with the SEC's reserve reporting guidelines. Participating on the call this morning are Ezra Yacob, chief executive officer; Billy Helms, president and chief operating officer; Ken Boedeker, EVP, exploration and production; Jeff Leitzell, EVP, exploration and production; Lance Terveen, senior VP, marketing; and David Streit, VP, investor and public relations. Here is Ezra.Ezra Yacob -- President Thanks, Tim. Good morning, everyone. EOG's cash return strategy demonstrates our commitment to deliver long-term shareholder value. Yesterday, we declared a second special dividend for the year of $1.80 per share following last quarter's $1 per share.

 



 Combined with our peer-leading annualized regular dividend of $3 per share year-to-date, we have announced $3.4 billion in cash returned to shareholders in 2022. EOG has a strong history of cash return. Since we began trading as an independent company in 1999, we have delivered a sustainable growing regular dividend. It has never been cut or suspended, and its 23-year compound annual growth rate is 22%. Since the transition of premium drilling in 2016, our dividend compound annual growth rate has been even higher at 28%, including doubling our dividend last year. Today, our regular dividend not only leads our E&P peer group, it is more than competitive across all sectors of the market. More recently, we have supplemented our regular dividend with significant special dividends, reflecting our commitment to both capital discipline and returning cash to shareholders. While we are proud of our cash return track record, we acknowledge shareholders' desire for more transparency and predictability. To provide both, we recently formalized and yesterday announced our cash return commitment of returning a minimum of 60% of annual free cash flow. Going forward, our intention is to evaluate and pay the regular dividend and consider options for additional cash return every quarter. The addition of quantitative guidance to our cash return framework reflects our confidence in our business. The pandemic-driven volatility in the oil and gas market is stabilizing. However, the macro environment continues to evolve with the war in Ukraine and other geopolitical events. We have proven to ourselves over the last several years that our business is resilient through the cycle, including unprecedented shocks to the industry. Credit for EOG's resilience for the steady improvement in our ability to generate free cash flow in any environment and the ability to make this free cash flow commitment to our shareholders goes to our employees, who embraced our premium return hurdle rate six years ago, which requires that all investments earn a minimum of 30% direct after-tax rate of return using a $40 flat oil and $2.50 flat natural gas price. Last year, we doubled the minimum return to 60%.

 



 Both the premium and now double premium hurdle rates have positioned the company to have an outstanding year in 2022. In spite of the ongoing inflationary and supply chain issues facing our industry, our employees outperformed during the first quarter and are positioned to deliver on our annual capital and volumes plan. We have decades of low-cost, high-return inventory that support the consistent financial performance that our shareholders have come to expect and that drives long-term value. Our inventory spans multiple assets across oil, combo and dry natural gas basins throughout the country, which enables us to pursue the highest netbacks by diversifying both our investment and sales market options. We also continue to explore. A year and a half ago, we announced Dorado, a premium dry natural gas play, where we've captured 21 Tcf of resource potential net to EOG. In a moment, Ken will update you on the progress we've made on well performance and well costs in what we believe is the lowest cost and lowest emission source of natural gas onshore U.S. Our organic exploration program has grown our premium inventory by more than three and a half times since the premium metric was introduced in 2016. So our exploration program isn't focused on adding more. We are looking for better inventory. New players, like Dorado, and the potential we see in our current exploration pipeline gives us confidence we will continue to grow and improve our double premium inventory in the future as we have done in the past. While we have earmarked and committed to return a minimum of 60% of annual free cash flow, our long-standing framework and priorities for total free cash flow are unchanged. A sustainable growing regular dividend, a pristine balance sheet, additional cash returned to shareholders through special dividends and opportunistic stock buybacks and low-cost property bolt-ons. Sustaining and growing the regular dividend remains our highest priority and reflects our confidence in the long-term performance of the company. A pristine balance sheet is a strategic advantage functioning as a shock absorber that also provides the flexibility to exercise a buyback when the opportunity arises and to take advantage of other countercyclical investments. Additional cash returns through special dividends and buybacks complement our other priorities. And together with our free cash flow minimum return guidance, support our goal to create significant long-term shareholder value. Now, here's Tim to review our financial position.Tim Driggers -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Ezra. Our ability to refine our long-standing cash return framework by providing quantitative guidance is made possible by EOG's outstanding operational and financial performance. In the first quarter, EOG earned $2.3 billion after adjusting items or $4 per share. We generated $2.3 billion of free cash flow. Capital expenditures of $1 billion were near the low end of the guidance range, while production volumes and total per unit cash operating cost finished better than targets. Our confidence is further bolstered because we finished the quarter in an incredibly strong financial position. Total debt on March 31 was $5.1 billion. This includes the current portion of debt of $1.25 billion reflecting a bond that matures in March 2023 that we intend to pay off with cash on hand. Cash on March 31 was $4 billion for a net debt of $1.1 billion. This yields a debt to total capitalization ratio of 4.8%. The $4 billion cash balance excludes $2.4 billion of collateral for hedges held by our counterparties. The amount of collateral fluctuates with oil and natural gas prices. These short-term timing differences in cash flows are not considered in our calculation of free cash flow and do not influence our decision on the timing or amount of cash return to shareholders. To that end, EOG has declared special dividends so far this year totaling $2.80 per share on top of the regular dividend of $3 per share on an annual basis, totaling $3.4 billion. Our objective in establishing our cash return guidance was to make it simple, yet dynamic so that it is easily communicated and understood, while remaining suitable under a range of commodity price scenarios. The actual amount of cash returned each year is a product of our long-standing free cash flow priorities. These have not changed. The size of our regular dividend is now the largest of our E&P peers and the strength of our balance sheet supports our ability to return a large portion of free cash flow back to shareholders going forward under a range of scenarios. The $1.80 special dividend declared yesterday along with the $0.75 regular quarterly dividend demonstrates significant progress toward our commitment to returning at least 60% of our 2022 free cash flow to our shareholders. Subject to commodity prices, the amount of free cash flow available and the board's discretion, our intention is to return cash through special dividends or stock buybacks on a quarterly basis going forward. Here's Billy.Billy Helms -- Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Tim. We've had a great start to the year. Our first quarter volume, capital expenditure and total per unit cash operating cost performance exceeded our forecasted targets. We're also pleased with our progress to date offsetting inflation and managing well costs. Our drilling teams continue to reduce drilling days and generate consistent performance improvements. Use of self-sourced downhole tools as well as minimizing downtime and mud losses remain areas of focus to improve performance. For example, drilling times in our Eagle Ford oil play continue to improve, decreasing 28% in the last 5 years. The average well is now drilled in less than 5 days. On the completion side, we have increased the amount of treated lateral per day by about 10% over the last year as we further deploy the Super Zipper technique. We are now using this technique on more than half of the wells completed in the company and expect to increase its use further as we progress through the year. In addition, our self-sourced sand program is providing a tremendous advantage that we expect to further offset additional inflation throughout the year. When we established our plan at the beginning of the year, we knew the unusually tight supply constraints initially sparked by the economic recovery from the pandemic would present a unique challenge. Taking these headwinds into account, this year's plan was devised with known efficiency improvements that would maintain well costs flat with last year. While we have since seen increased steel and fuel prices directly associated with the war in Ukraine, we are confident we can still deliver on the capex and volume targets in our original plan. Rather than accept inflation as a given, our employees remain proactive. We have a track record of lowering cost and developing efficiencies through periods of economic expansion and other drivers of inflation. Our operating teams are ever more diligent in their quest to identify new areas of performance enhancements that will lower well cost. EOG's advantage lies with our people and our culture. Today's challenges are met with innovation and value creation in the field through our multiple basin decentralized approach. This period of inflationary fuel prices is the primary driver of the 2% increase in our full year per unit cash operating costs versus our previous guidance. However, higher commodity prices also presented an opportune time to enhance our workover program, which will be reflected in LOE expense. These additional workovers bring on low-cost production, they pay out within weeks and increase the long-term performance of our assets. All in all, we are thoughtfully managing our assets to offset a small effect from inflation. While we have flexibility to adjust our plan in any given year to respond to unique or extreme marketing conditions, such as the pandemic in 2020, our capital plan is thoughtfully planned across all our assets to support the pace of operations that is optimal for each individual asset to continue to improve. We believe we have the best people, assets and plan to mitigate any headwinds and continue to improve the company for the long term. Here's Ken to discuss the incredible improvements we made in our premium gas play, Dorado.Ken Boedeker -- Executive Vice President, Exploration and Production Thanks, Billy. A year and a half ago, we announced a major new natural gas discovery in South Texas, we named Dorado. It's a dry gas play with 21 Tcf of resource potential net to EOG across stacked pays in the Austin Chalk and Eagle Ford formations. Our breakeven cost in Dorado is less than $1.25 per Mcf, which we believe represents the lowest cost of supply of natural gas in the United States. Dorado is the most recent double premium play to emerge from our organic exploration program. We began technical work on Dorado back in 2016, captured a large acreage position in the core of the play as a first mover during 2017 and 2018 and drilled test wells in late 2018 and 2019. After pausing during the downturn in 2020, we moved Dorado into active development last year and completed 11 net wells. This year, we anticipate completing 30 net wells, nearly tripling activity. Since last year, we have doubled our production rate out of Dorado, producing 140 million cubic feet per day in the first quarter of 2022. We are leveraging our proprietary knowledge built from prior plays to move quickly down the cost curve as we increase activity at a pace that allows us to incorporate learnings and savings. We completed seven net wells during the first quarter of 2022 while keeping well costs flat compared to similar designs in the first quarter of last year, successfully offsetting inflation. Since our first wells drilled in 2018, we have reduced well costs over 35% and are approaching our target well costs faster than we anticipated. In addition, well performance is improving. Productivity from recent wells is significantly beating our initial forecast. Refined completion techniques and a focus on targeting have increased our performance projections on a per foot basis. This year, we have also moved to longer lateral switch, combined with the improvements to per foot productivity have resulted in an 80% higher two year cumulative production volume than our 2018 wells, compounding our capital efficiency. Our preliminary plan for the play was to focus initial development on the Austin Chalk formation and then follow that with development of the Eagle Ford so it would benefit from well cost reductions as well as water and gas gathering infrastructure installed for the Austin Chalk. With the dramatic improvements to our Eagle Ford formation well results, we now expect to codevelop it with the Austin Chalk, which will provide additional opportunities to lower costs through scale and simultaneous operations. As a dry gas play in close proximity to multiple markets, we expect Dorado's gas will have a lower emissions footprint compared to other onshore gas supplies in the U.S. In addition, we continue to leverage companywide expertise to build out an operationally efficient and low emissions field. As we expand development of Dorado into a core asset, it will contribute to lowering EOG's companywide emissions intensity rate. Combined with EOG's low operating costs and advantaged market position located close to several major sales hubs in South Texas, including access to pipelines to Mexico and several LNG export terminals, Dorado is in an ideal position to supply low-cost, low emissions, natural gas into markets with long-term growth potential. Now, next up is Ezra for concluding remarks.Ezra Yacob -- President Thanks, Ken. I'd like to note the following important takeaways from the call today. First, formalizing our cash return strategy demonstrates our commitment to our free cash flow priorities that, along with high return, disciplined reinvestment, offers significant long-term shareholder value. Second, EOG is realizing another tremendous year of improvement. We are set to deliver outstanding returns while demonstrating capital discipline within an inflationary environment, delivering on both volumes and capital as announced at the beginning of 2022. Third, our most recent organic exploration announcement, Dorado, has positioned us with over 20 Tcf of low-cost natural gas with access to multiple markets. Our progress in Dorado is on pace to make this North America's lowest cost of supply. Thanks for listening. Now we'll go to Q&A. 