  OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Mosaic Company's third-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Your host for today's call is Paul Massoud, vice president, investor relations of The Mosaic Company. Mr. Massoud, you may begin.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you and welcome to our third quarter 2021 earnings call. Opening comments will be provided by Joc O'Rourke, president and chief executive officer, followed by a fireside chat as well as open Q&A. Clint Freeland, senior vice president and chief financial officer; and Jenny Wang, vice president of global strategic marketing will also be available to answer your questions. We will be making forward-looking statements during this conference call.

 



 The statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future financial and operating results. They are based on management's beliefs and expectations as of today's date and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from projected results. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are included in our press release furnished yesterday and in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.We will also be presenting certain non-GAAP financial measures. Our third quarter press release and performance data attached as exhibits to yesterday's Form 8-K filing also contain important information on these non-GAAP measures. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Joc. Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Good morning. Thank you for joining our third quarter earnings discussion. I hope you've had a chance to review our posted commentary and slides as well as our news release and performance data, which were made available on our website yesterday. I will provide some additional context before we respond to the questions we received last night and then we'll conclude with a live Q&A session.

 



 Mosaic delivered excellent financial performance in the third quarter, with EBITDA reaching its highest level in more than a decade. Our business continues to benefit from the strong markets we've been discussing since the second half of 2020. With our North America production recovery and a strong order book, we expect the momentum to continue through the end of the year and into 2022. Before we get into our strong outlook, I want to briefly give you an update on the production issues we faced during the third quarter. As you'll remember, in June, our Esterhazy K1 and K2 potash mines experienced accelerated brine inflow and we made the decision to stop operations approximately six months ahead of schedule. To help mitigate lost production, we further expedited the ramp-up of K3 and restarted Colonsay. The second shaft at K3 is now operational, which paves the way for us to reach full production in the first quarter of 2022. And at Colonsay, we hit our target run rate in October. In phosphates, the damage from Hurricane Ida and the equipment failure at New Wales resulted in a 300,000 ton reduction loss in the third quarter. Thanks to the efforts of our team, the fourth quarter production shortfall has been reduced to 100,000 tons and operating rates should be normal by the end of the year. In both phosphates and potash, our team has worked diligently to ensure any shortfalls resulting from issues outside of our control were temporary. As we head into the end of the year and into 2022, we are well positioned to take advantage of the current market. Shifting now to agricultural markets. We continue to see strength extending well into 2022. Grain stocks remain limited and global corn and soybean demand is elevated, driven in part by surging Chinese demand and rising global biofuel demand. As a result, agricultural commodity prices remain high and farmer income remains well above historic norms.

 



 That strength in crop markets, combined with global industry supply constraints, are the key drivers pushing fertilizer prices higher. In the Americas, demand is considerably stronger than we expected at the beginning of the year. Brazil is expected to once again set a record for fertilizer shipments in 2021. Grower economics remain profitable despite the latest surges in nutrient prices and this has been reflected in the significant order book into the end of the year and into the first half of 2022. In North America, demand continues to be strong and prices have followed reflecting a healthy domestic market benefiting from imports from a diverse group of suppliers. Grower economics remain favorable in North America, although not quite as favorable as during the first half of the year. However, persistently low inventories and capacity constraints are underpinning the tight supply demand balance as well as pricing. In India, while farmer demand remains strong and the government has recently acted to improve importer economics for phosphates, availability is still lagging. Recent moves by the governments will likely help in the recovery of Indian imports which lagged most of 2021 because of the disconnect between domestic subsidies and global prices. Given how depleted Indian inventories are, we see India as a source of pent-up demand, which should return to the market in 2022. In Southeast Asia, fertilizer demand is benefiting from the strength in palm oil prices and China is incenting its farmers to maximize yields through subsidized crop prices. New supply of phosphates is limited. Chinese exports are expected to decline significantly in the fourth quarter and in the first half of 2022, reflecting the directive from China's National Development and Reform Commission that major producers halt all phosphate exports to ensure adequate domestic supply. In potash, demand growth continues to exceed new supply from higher operating rates announced by producers and prices continue to rise. Putting this all together, we expect further upside in realized pricing for phosphates and potash. Our fourth quarter order book is now about 90% committed and priced. As a result, we expect to see a sequential increase of $55 to $65 a ton in realized phosphate prices and $110 to $130 a ton in realized potash prices. We are seeing buyer appetite for first quarter commitments as well. All of this implies higher earnings in the fourth quarter and a very strong results continuing into 2022. Our earnings are leading to substantial free cash flow generation, which has allowed us to make significant progress toward several commitments we've made. Earlier this year, we raised our regular dividend target by 50% to $0.30 a share. In October, our board approved an additional regular dividend target increase of 50% to $0.45 per share effective in 2022. In August, we repaid $450 million in long-term debt toward our target of $1 billion of debt reduction. Also in August, we announced an expanded share repurchase program of $1 billion. Since that announcement, we have repurchased more than 950,000 shares. In addition to strengthening the balance sheet and returning capital to shareholders, we continue to evaluate further investments in the business. Capital expenditures are expected to total $1.3 billion in 2021, of which roughly $450 million is growth-related. We continue to evaluate every opportunity that allows us to further strengthen the balance sheet, grow the business and return capital to our investors. Now, before I conclude my opening remarks, I want to take a moment to recognize the many contributions of Laura Gagnon and what she has made at Mosaic. As head of investor relations for the last decade, Laura has been an invaluable advisor to me and to the entire leadership team. We are very grateful for her service and wish her all the best in her retirement. Paul Massoud has been promoted to lead IR and Laura will stay on through the end of the year to help with the transition. Please join me in wishing her well. With that, let's move on to questions. Paul?Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Joc, with continued strong nutrient pricing, we've received a number of questions on affordability and risk of potash and phosphate demand disruption. First, in what geographies are you seeing signs of potential demand destruction? And how do you think about the risks for both phosphates and potash?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. Let me start by saying the areas where consumption has been lower, has been more about availability than it has been about demand destruction. And here, in China, because of strong pricing early in the year, the exports were high. However, now the Chinese government has stepped in and restricted exports and we expect the exports to go very low in the last quarter and into quarter 1 of next year, which will allow for a better supply in the domestic market. In terms of India, the inability to secure P&K has not been about farmer demand but importer economics. The inability or inadequate subsidies have really been what's driven the inability of the importers to economically bring product into that jurisdiction. However, what we do expect to see based on those two is pent-up demand in both China and India for early next year and into the spring season. So with that, I'm going to throw it over to Jenny to really talk about the details of fertilizer affordability in our key markets.Jenny Wang -- Vice President of Global Strategic Marketing Thanks, Joc. I think you covered India and China. The reduced demand in 2021 is going to be the pent-up demand for 2022. We feel very confident that two markets will come back with a very strong demand in 2022. In the rest of the world, we have not really seen a major size of demand destruction. Even in Brazil, the barter ratio is less favorable than the previous years. We still have seen demand from the growers and we actually have sold over 10% of the summer crop nutrient already.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Can you compare and contrast 2021 with 2008 in terms of affordability, inventory, soil levels?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Yes. Thank you. Let me start with soil levels. We don't have perfect insight into the soil inventory per se. But what we do have is we have some studies by the likes of the University of Illinois that show that over the last 10 years, actual soil inventories have decreased. And that's particularly as we've used more precision agriculture, which allows you to put the right amount of fertilizer down. But it also means you have to replace it every year. And of course, in Brazil, with the depleted soil, that has to be replaced every year. So there is definitely on-ground demand that will be there next year. In terms of channel inventory, we see that as being low in almost every jurisdiction. There is no place around the globe where we see any kind of buildup of channel inventory. And that's fundamentally different than it was 10 years ago where you had large amounts of inventory, not only of the fertilizers, but large inventories of crops like grains and oilseeds. So this turnaround is quite different. And so as we look forward, we see affordability fine right now and we expect that affordability will be good because either price will have to go up for grains and oilseeds, which will drive long-term fertilizer or they will plant less, which means that prices for grains and oilseed will go up. So in other words, the cure for high prices is high prices.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Joc, how are India's subsidies impacting affordability?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Well, at a farmer level, it's a controlled market. So it's very difficult to compare affordability at the farm level. Certainly, we know that on-farm demand for both phosphates and potash is very strong. At an importer level, the gap between global pricing and the retail price has been such that the importer economics are poor, which means they're not importing, which means that the product isn't available to the farmer. And really, that goes for both potash and phosphate. Let me add, as we move into 2022, there is a lot of pent-up demand in India. And we fully expect that the government will have to act and increase subsidies to allow the farmers to get the product they're going to need.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Another topic that generated quite a few questions, including from Adam Samuelson at Goldman Sachs and Vincent Andrews from Morgan Stanley, China's phosphate market, especially given the recent change in China's export policy. First part of this question is what are our expectations for exports this year and next year? And how is that being impacted by changes in China's production volumes?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Well, thank you. This year, we're expecting China's total exports to run just over 10 million tons. But as we've seen recently, that has led to fairly large deficits domestically. So the government has stepped in, put on export restrictions, which are now taking effect. We don't expect a whole lot of Q4 exports or probably first quarter 2022. After that, we do expect things to return to normal. So for this year, we're expecting a little over 10 million tons of exports. Next year, we think that will return back to the, say, 9.5 or 9.3 that we've had in previous years. But year-over-year, we should be down about 1.5 million tons from where we were this year. Now, we also see a long-term decline in production of phosphate fertilizers for agricultural use. That means that the phosphoric acid is starting to find its way into a lot of other industrial products, including these lithium iron phosphate batteries and a number of other areas. So what we see is a declining production over time and probably a restriction of availability into the phosphate fertilizer market. So that means that over time, we should see a decrease of exports from China.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Chris Parkinson from Mizuho and Michael Piken from Cleveland Research both asked about the impact of ammonia on our phosphate business and how much spot ammonia we'll need to purchase in the fourth quarter.Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, gentlemen. So let me just start by reminding everyone, our ammonia is sourced from three different sources. First, our Faustina ammonia plant, which is obviously at cost, including the cost of Henry Hub natural gas; our CF contract, which we've maximized at the 800,000 short tons per year at this stage. And then, of course, open market purchases. This quarter, we're looking at approximately 20% to 25% will probably come from open market purchases. As such, what we expect to see is about a $5 to $10 increase per ton of our raw materials. And that's based on market changes in ammonia plus a relatively flat sulfur pricing environment.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations We had a handful of questions asking about our potash production assets, including questions from Seth Goldstein of Morningstar and Andrew Wong at RBC. Both asked details on how K3 will ramp and how total production volumes and costs will evolve in 2022.Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. Let me start by saying that the ramp-up of K3 is going very well. We have just handed over the south hoist system to operations, so that is now operational. So we have both hoists operational. And as we increase the number of 4-rotor miners between now and first quarter, we will hit full production by the end of first quarter. So that means that very soon, we'll be running that mine at full production again. Now, in terms of the other piece, I just want to highlight is we've also been very successful at starting up our Colonsay mine. That operation is now running at its expected rate of 100,000 tons per month-ish to about 1 million tons a year. We expect between the two of them, we will have actually more incremental production by the first quarter of next year.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Steve Byrne from Bank of America and Adrien Tamagno from Berenberg as well as others are asking about our product pricing strategy, how we think about forward sales, how far ahead have we sold and how much of our first half volumes might already be committed.Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, gentlemen. Well, let me start by saying availability is a big concern across a number of our regions. And what we're seeing today is actually a lot of inbounds, but we're being very careful about which geographies we're selling into and the amounts we're forward selling. So while the demand is there, we're still being cautious. I'm going to let Jenny give you the details on that.Jenny Wang -- Vice President of Global Strategic Marketing Sure, Joc. We have seen a strong demand from customers, especially in North America and Brazil. We began to sell some modest amount of the tons for Q1 and even we've started to sell the tons into Q2 as well. These are all good indications of continuous strength of the market and we feel good about that.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Joel Jackson of BMO and John Roberts of UBS are asking about Mosaic Fertilizantes. Given the strength of our margins over the past few quarters, is this being driven by distribution or production? And how much are co-products like gypsum sales contributing to this?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Well, thank you, gentlemen. First of all, let me say, Mosaic Fertilizantes is an integrated business, though it is the combined benefit of distribution with production that has really driven our results there. Part of the strength has obviously been in the markets, but we've also made tremendous progress ourselves of transforming the business, first of all, in the $300 million of synergies we found and then more recently, we've just exceeded our $200 million EBITDA improvement target through transformation. So remember, the pro forma at the time of purchase was about $60 million EBITDA per year and we just did $300 million in a quarter. So you can see where we've extracted significant value and has dropped straight to the bottom line. And in terms of co-products, they are making a significant contribution, I think, certainly in the level of $50 million to $60 million of sales a year from those co-products.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations A number of analysts, including Andrew Wong from RBC and Rikin Patel from Exane have asked about capital allocation. We'll break this up into a couple of questions. First, can you discuss what to expect for capital expenditures going forward in terms of new growth or major investments and sustaining capital?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. I'm going to start by giving a little bit and then hand it over to Clint for some of the detail. But over the next five years, we do expect capex to trend lower. Growth capex will certainly decrease at the end of K3. But again, as part of our capital allocation, we do expect to reinvest in the business over time. So there will be some reinvestment that we will make. And I'm going to -- with that, leave it over to Clint to talk about capital.Clint Freeland -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Joc. Like Joc said, I think over the next five years, we would expect capex to trend lower. Certainly, K3 -- the K3 investment will be ramping down and is in the process of ramping down. Also recall that some of the capital investments, particularly over the next two, three years, from a growth standpoint, will be made in extending our reserve down in Florida. We also have had a number of regulatory changes, particularly down in Brazil, around some of our dams. That's going to promote or require some additional spending. And one of the things we've also been looking at is we have a number of assets that, over the long term, have been leased. And as we've looked at how core those assets are to our underlying operations, I think there is a portion of those assets that probably make more sense for us to own instead of leasing. And so that also will be part of our capex program going forward. But I think with all of that taken into consideration, certainly, over the next five years, we would expect total capex to come down. And as Joc said, we'll continue to look for opportunistic investments in the business that are high-returning like the ones that we see today, we'll look for those opportunities to continue to invest as we go forward.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations As a follow-up on this topic, how do we expect to deploy excess capital between incremental debt paydown, share repurchases, dividend policy and the type of growth projects that were just mentioned?Joc O'Rourke -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you. We remain focused on a balanced capital allocation approach between three key pillars. First, our balance sheet. We've demonstrated that by paying down $450 million of long-term debt this quarter. We intend to continue to pay down debt to the target of $1 billion over time. In terms of growth investments, we've invested or will have invested $450 million in our business this year, including our spend on K3 and our spend on reserve extensions in Florida. And then finally, the returning capital to shareholders. Here, we've raised our target dividend for the second time by 50% to $0.45 per year in 2022 and we've started a share repurchase program based on an authorization of $1 billion of share repurchases over time. And in that, we've already repurchased approximately 1 million shares on the open market. So we've demonstrated that we continue to use a very balanced approach and that's what we will do going forward.Paul Massoud -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you. That concludes the prepared portion of this event. I would now like to open the line to Q&A. 