  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the MRO first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. My name is Brandon, and I'll be your operator for today. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Guy Baber, vice president of investor relations. And you may begin, sir.Guy Baber -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks Brandon, and thank you to everyone for joining us this morning. Yesterday, after the close, we issued a press release, a slide presentation and an investor packet that address our first quarter 2022 results. Those documents can be found on our website at marathonoil.com. Joining me on today's call are Lee Tillman, our chairman, president and CEO; Dane Whitehead, executive VP and CFO; Pat Wagner, executive VP of corporate development and strategy; and Mike Henderson, executive VP of operations. As a reminder, today's call will contain forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. I'll refer everyone to the cautionary language included in the press release and our presentation materials, as well as to the risk factors described in our SEC filings. We will also reference non-GAAP terms in today's discussion which have been reconciled and defined in our earnings materials including reinvestment rate and adjusted free cash flow generation. Mentions of free cash flow generation today refer to our adjusted free cash flow before working capital and inclusive of EG LNG return capital.With that I'll turn the call over to Lee who will provide his opening remarks. We'll also hear from Dane and Mike today before we move to our question-and-answer session. Lee? Lee Tillman -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, guy. And good morning to everyone listening to our call today. To start I want to thank our employees and contractors for their dedication and hard work during these most dynamic times, as well as their commitment to our core values of safety and environmental excellence. In light of current events, including geopolitical tensions, economy wide inflationary pressures, and the highest global energy costs we have seen in some time, I want to briefly provide some context around the current energy market. First, we believe Marathon Oil as a global oil and gas producer has a clear and much needed role to play in the longer term energy landscape. This belief has only been reinforced as energy markets have struggled to respond to a confluence of factors, continued demand recovery from the pandemic, struggling global supply chains, labor shortages and a fully employed US labor market and systemic underinvestment in both new oil and gas supply and the requisite infrastructure. The invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces has only exacerbated these pressures of bending geopolitics, and creating a level of uncertainty and hostility between NATO and Russia that has not been experienced since the Cold War. The reality is that energy markets were already tightening from supply and demand fundamentals before this Russian action, and the risk premium now embedded in commodities, including oil and gas has returned with a vengeance. Even in the unlikely event of a near-term resolution to this crisis, the dye has been cast and actions, particularly by European countries are already underway to move away from Russian oil and gas and secure more reliable supply from the Middle East and the US. And here at home, these events are only adding to an inflationary environment that has once again put energy on center stage, inflation that impacts every American family. It has underscored the need for an orderly energy transition that includes oil and gas as part of all of the above strategy, and has recalibrated global views as to the current and ongoing role of US oil and gas in the world economy. Our mandate is clear, and it is a statement of Marathon Oil's corporate purpose to help responsibly meet the world's growing energy needs by operating with the highest standards, prioritizing all elements of our safety, environmental, social, and governance performance. While delivering strong financial returns for our shareholders. Oil and gas are essential to any orderly multi decade transition to a lower carbon future. Rather than an energy transition, it is more of an energy expansion to both meet growing world energy demand and mitigate global GHG emissions. This is not an either or proposition and failure on either front is not acceptable.However, our approach must be pragmatic and grounded in the free market, innovation, and an all of the above energy approach. Company strategies grounded in free market principles and a thoughtful analysis of competitive dynamics. And long term fundamentals are good for energy stability and security, the US consumer and the longer term health of our industry. At Marathon Oil, we have conviction that we are pursuing the right strategy for shareholders and stakeholders alike. It's best summarized by our framework for success on slide 4 of our debt, strong corporate returns, sustainable free cash flow, and meaningful return of capital to our shareholders through the commodity price cycle, all underpinned by a high quality portfolio, a bulletproof balance sheet, and a transparent commitment to comprehensive ESG excellence. Importantly, first quarter represented another quarter of comprehensive delivery against this framework. I would like to focus on three key takeaways today. First, we're continuing to build a peer leading track record and quite frankly, a market leading track record of return of capital to our shareholders. Our cash flow driven return of capital model uniquely prioritizes our equity investors as the first call on cash flow, not the drill bit. And our continued execution underscores our commitment to our shareholders and highlights the power of our portfolio in a constructed price environment. Over the trailing two quarters, we've returned around 60% of our CFO or over $1.4 billion to our shareholders. To clarify that 60% of our cash flow from operations, not our free cash flow. This actually equates to almost 80% of our free cash flow over the same period. In total, we have now executed over $1.6 billion of share repurchases since last October, driving an 11% reduction to our outstanding share count in just seven months. And those shares were repurchased at a price below $19 a share, a discount of over 25% relative to today's trading price demonstrating the power of consistent dollar averaging. We are significantly growing all of the per share financial metrics that matter most to our equity valuation. Under current market conditions and given our free cash flow yield, we continue to believe buybacks remain an excellent use of capital and consisting with that view, our board of directors has increased our outstanding buyback authorization $2.5 billion. We also just raised our quarterly base dividend for the fifth consecutive quarter. My second key point is that first quarter was again, another quarter of solid consistent execution. We generated $1.3 billion of cash flow from operations and $940 million of free cash flow, both before working capital at a reinvestment rate of just 27%. And we returned $640 million or 50% of that CFO back to our shareholders. This strong financial performance was underpinned by solid operational execution consistent with the guidance we provided on last quarter's call, including $348 million of capital spending, and 168,000 barrels of oil production per day. My third key takeaway is that Marathon Oil represents a truly compelling investment opportunity. We've rebased our 2022 financial outlook to pricing more consistent with the current environment $100, WTI and $6 Henry Hub. At these prices, we expect to generate over $4.5 billion of free cash flow this year at a reinvestment rate of just 20%. That translates to a free cash flow yield of about 25% on the current equity value. That's also $1.5 billion free cash flow uplift versus the initial financial outlook we provided the market in February, net of $100 million of incremental capital inflation and at a lower reinvestment rate. This uplift highlights our unique torque to higher commodity prices due to our more advantage cash tax outlook, preservation of our upside exposure through our hedge book and balance commodity exposure. This includes our unique Integrated Gas position in Equatorial Guinea, where we are raising our annual equity income guidance by $200 million, or by 67%. I have long said that our company and our sector must deliver truly outsized financial outcomes relative to the S&P 500 during periods of constructive pricing to attract increased investor sponsorship. We are successfully delivering on this obligation. I will now pass it off to Dane who will give you a financial update, highlighting how most of the free cash flow I just mentioned, will be going back for equity holders.Dane Whitehead -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Lee and good morning everyone on the call. I'll speak to slide 7 through 9 of our deck largely focusing my comments on a return of capital accomplishments and outlook. First off, our return of capital framework is summarized on slide 7, and remains unchanged. In these uncertain times. We believe the market will reward consistency, transparency, simplicity, and delivery. Marathon Oil has built a hard earned reputation for execution excellence and delivering on our operational commitments. We've likewise now established the same credibility in return of capital to our shareholders. As a reminder, our framework calls for delivering a minimum of 40% of cash flow from operations to our equity holders when WTI is at or above $60 per barrel. This represents a return of capital commitment at the top of our E&P peer space and is competitive with any sector in the S&P 500. The overall objectives of our framework are to maintain capital return leadership versus peers and the S&P 500, maximize our equity valuation, and reduce downside equity volatility by providing clear minimum capital return commitments tied to specific commodity price environments. We also aim to provide the market with transparency around the return of capital quantum, while preserving flexibility to deliver that return via the most accretive and efficient mechanism in light of prevailing market conditions. Today, that mechanism is a competitive sustainable base dividend and a materials share repurchase program. Importantly, as Lee mentioned, our return of capital targets are based on our cash flow from operations, not our free cash flow. This is purposeful, intended to make clear that our shareholders get the first call on cash generation. It's consistent with our conservative reinvestment rate approach to capital spending. And importantly, it represents a stronger commitment to our shareholders in an inflationary environment. While frameworks and commitments are important, we believe establishing a consistent track record of delivery quarter in quarter out is ultimately key to building and maintaining trust and credibility in the marketplace. Over the trailing two quarters we've returned approximately 60% of our CFO back to equity holders to our base dividend and share repurchases. Since October of last year, so in just over seven months, we bought back over $1.6 billion from our stock and reduced our outstanding share count by 11%, driving truly differentiated per share growth. We've also raised our base dividend five quarters in a row for a cumulative increase of 167% since the beginning of last year, consistent with our objectives to pay a sustainable base dividend that's competitive with our peers, the S&P 500 and similarly sized industrial companies. Turning to the full year 2022 outlook on slide 9, with no material damage to debt maturities this year, and constructive commodity price backdrop, and our commitment to capital discipline and the expected reinvestment rate of just 20%, we expect to continue to meaningfully outperform our minimum 40% CFO commitment. During the first quarter, we returned approximately 50% of CFO, with our pace being somewhat moderated by a negative $200 million working capital impact that accounted for about 15% of our cash flow generation in the quarter. If the current macro Volta, is reasonable to anticipate us returning, at or above this 50% level going forward. But to put this into context, that would represent a total return of capital of at least $3 billion this year, with upside potential. As I stated, we continue to believe that the combination of a competitive and sustainable base dividend along with material share repurchase program makes most sense for our company. Consistent with this view, the board again reset our outstanding buyback authorization to $2.5 billion, giving us plenty of room to continue to execute confidently in coming quarters. And while our equity value has appreciated since we kicked off our buyback program, our free cash flow yields is actually appreciated even more. We're trading at about a 25% free cash flow yield at $100 oil. Even testing buybacks at our current share price against a longer dated forward curve of $60 to $70 WTI. Our free cash flow yield is in double digit territory. Buybacks remain a very good use of cash, because we believe our equity is fundamentally mispriced. As long as that's the case, we'll continue to aggressively repurchase our own stock, it's the best acquisition we can make. We also continue to believe that discipline share repurchases offer clear strategic advantages. In addition to driving strong underlying for share metrics that are correlated with shareholder value, they also offer clear ship synergies with our base dividend. One final housekeeping topic for me before I turn the call over to Mike, and that's US federal income taxes. My key message here is that consistent with what we've said before, even at prevailing commodity prices, we don't expect to pay cash, federal income taxes until the second half of the decade. However, you probably noticed that in 1Q, we partially reversed the value of -- the valuation allowance we've been carrying on our deferred tax assets, and are now booking US deferred taxes at the statutory rate. By way of background, at year end 2016, we established the valuation allowance for 100% of our net deferred tax asset. At the time, we had built a cumulative three year tax loss, along with -- which along with depressed commodity prices was evidence that we may not realize our deferred tax assets in the future. That's why we've been booking at 0% tax rate in the US since 2017. In 1Q 2022, our three year cumulative tax loss was erased and is now positive. And given the improvement we've recently witnessed in the macro, our strong performance and the fact that we expect to continue earning net income, we made the decision to reverse the lion's share of our valuation allowance in the first quarter. This just means we're now accruing US tax expense, a normal statutory rate 21% federal and 1% state. That's important for modeling purposes because both taxes will have an impact on your EPS estimates. However, they're -- and it is important there's no impact on cash flow. The accrued tax is all deferred, and has no direct bearing on the time they transition to US cash tax paying status. I'll now turn the call over to Mike who will discuss our 2022 capital program and associated financial outcomes.Mike Henderson -- Executive Vice President, Operations Thanks Dane. My key message today is that the priorities for our capital program remain unchanged. With higher prices, we are seeing disciplined prioritizing free cash flow generation and protecting our execution excellence. We feel very confident about delivering free cash flow, capital efficiency and operating efficiency at the very top of our peer group while maintaining a bulletproof balance sheet. First, an updated outlook of the financial performance we expect our program to deliver this year. We've rebased our 2022 outlook to reflect the current commodity price environment on $100 oil and $6 Henry Hub. At this price deck, we now expect to generate over $4.5 billion of free cash flow at a 20% reinvestment rate and on an inflation adjusted $1.3 billion of capital. We've also raised our EG equity income guidance by $200 million. This represents a $1.5 billion free cash flow uplift from the original outlook, we provided at a lower reinvestment rate net of $100 million incremental capital inflation. Even with this modest incremental inflation, about 8%, our 2022 financial performance still has the lowest reinvestment rate and the highest capital efficiency of our peers. Now, let me address the inflationary backdrop in more detail. As a background, we commence at 2022 assuming 10% to 15% inflation, based on a price view of $80, WTI and $4 Henry Hub, that's what was baked into our original $1.2 billion budget. We opted to provide a deterministic budget estimate based on this pricing outlook as opposed to a broad range. We are now assuming a $100 price environment. And if that price environment is sustained, we're going to see some incremental cost pushing inflation north of 15% and closer to the 20% range. That's effectively what today's update of $1.3 billion reflects. And that $1.3 billion is all in capital, reflecting our total projected capital stand and a $100 price oil. Part of that increase is commodity driven, largely fueling chemicals which trend with WTI, as well as steel. It also reflects our efforts to protect the execution of our 2022 program. Prices are high, the labor pool incessant and supply chains globally and US economy wide are very tight. We are therefore focused on securing established and trusted service providers to protect our execution excellence and deliver our business plan. To that end, we feel confident about 90% of our remaining rec time for 2022 is now secured and long term contracts running into 2023. The majority of our pressure pumping needs are now tied down as well. We feel very good about access to both sand and steel. As Dane has mentioned, we do have some open steel pricing in the fourth quarter, which we've now accounted for. To be clear, we are only updating our budget for incremental inflation assuming a sustained $100 oil. We are not adding any proof capital due to higher prices. We are staying disciplined, prioritizing free cash flow and protecting execution. Additionally, our full year guidance for both oil and oil equivalent production remains unchanged despite some significant winter weather impacts in the Bakken during April that essentially shutdown the Williston Basin. With respect to the near term outlook, we expect second quarter oil production to be flat relative to actual first quarter oil production or about 160,000 barrels per day. This is primarily due to the reference severe winter storms in the Bakken during the month of April, which will likely have a negative second quarter impact of just over 4,000 barrels of oil per day and a similar impact on oil equivalent production. Thus, relatively flat quarter on quarter oil production with no change to the full year range for oil or oil [Inaudible] as a solid outcome given the magnitude of weather challenges in the Williston Basin. We do expect oil production to recover into the third quarter, with the second half of 2022 output expected to average above the midpoint of our annual guidance. On capital spending. First quarter capex was consistent with the guidance we provided last quarter. Also, consistent with what we indicated last quarter this year's budget will be slightly first half weighted with approximately only 55% to 60% of our full year capital spending expected during the first half. There is no change to planned wells to sales overall or at a basic level. I will now turn it back to Lee who will close out our prepared remarks.Lee Tillman -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thanks Mike. Before we move to our question-and-answer session, I want to wrap up with a compelling investment case for Marathon Oil. Recent shocks to the global energy market are outside of our control. And we'll test our sector's ability to maintain discipline, while also being part of a long-term solution for the US and our allies. There can't be energy security without a viable US independent E&P sector. And for that to happen as publicly traded entities, we must offer an investable thesis that competes with the broader market. We fully recognize that investors have options, so why MRO? First, we have instituted a transparent capital framework that uniquely prioritizes our shareholders as the first column cash flow generation, our framework is complemented by a track record of delivery 60% of CFO to equity holders over the last two quarters, and it's my expectation that we will lead our peer space and returning capital to shareholders in 2022. Second, when it comes to growth, our focus is not on growing production. It's growing the per share metrics that matter most. And we have already driven underlying per share growth of 11% in the last seven months with more to come. Third, due to our balance production mix, low corporate free cash flow breakeven, attractive hedge book and advantage US federal cash income tax position, our company retains a differentiated upside leverage to commodity outperformance. We will continue to protect the upside for our investors. That is reflected in the $1.5 billion uplift free cash flow guidance for 2022 including a $200 million increase to EG equity income. And finally, we believe the peer leading financial and operating results we're delivering today are sustainable, underpinned by over a decade of high quality, high return inventory by our five and 10 year benchmark maintenance scenarios, and by our commitment to comprehensive, longer term ESG excellence. The continued responsible development of oil and gas is crucial to protecting the standard of living we have all come to enjoy, and quite frankly take for granted. And just as important. It's central to elevating the current standard of living for billions of people around the world, many of whom are in developing countries living in energy poverty. Access to responsible, reliable, affordable energy is the great social equalizer and the foundation upon which the world's modern economy is built. We're quite proud to play our role as a responsible global supplier, while also supporting US energy security, which protects the US consumer and serves as a powerful tool of foreign policy, providing options for both the US and our allies. With that we can open up the line for Q&A. 