  OperatorGood day, everyone. Welcome to VeriSign's first-quarter 2022 earnings call. Today's conference is being recorded. Recording of this call is not permitted unless preauthorized. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. David Atchley, vice president of Investor Relations and corporate treasurer. Please go ahead, sir.David Atchley -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Treasurer

 



 Thank you, operator. Welcome to VeriSign's first-quarter 2022 earnings call. Joining me are Jim Bidzos, executive chairman and CEO; Todd Strubbe, president and COO; and George Kilguss, executive vice president and CFO. This call and presentation are being webcast from the Investor Relations website, which is available under About VeriSign on verisign.com. There, you will also find our earnings release. At the end of this call, the presentation will be available on that site. And within a few hours, the replay of the call will be posted. Financial results in our earnings release are unaudited, and our remarks include forward-looking statements that are subject to the risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, specifically the most recent report on Form 10-K.VeriSign does not update financial performance or guidance during the quarter unless it is done through a public disclosure. The financial results in today's call and the matters we will be discussing today include GAAP results and two non-GAAP measures used by VeriSign: adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow. GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation information is appended to the slide presentation, which can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website available after this call. Jim and George will provide some prepared remarks. And afterward, we will open the call for your questions. With that, I would like to turn the call over to Jim. 

 



Jim Bidzos -- Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, David. Good afternoon to everyone, and thank you for joining us. As global reliance on online services continues to increase, so does the importance of delivering uninterrupted and accurate DNS resolution. Our focus remains on operating, protecting, and enhancing our critical internet infrastructure, and I thank all of our employees who continuously execute our complex mission. I'm pleased to report another solid quarter of financial and operational performance for VeriSign. Revenues grew 7.2% year over year, while EPS grew 7.5% year over year. At the end of March, the domain name base in .com and .net totaled 174.7 million domain names, consisting of 161.3 million names for .com and 13.4 million names for .net, with a year-over-year growth rate of 4%. During the first quarter, we processed 10.2 million new registrations and the domain name base increased by 1.23 million names. The final renewal rate for the fourth quarter of 2021 was 74.8%, compared to 73.5% for the same quarter of 2020. Although renewal rates are not fully measurable until 45 days after the end of the quarter, we believe that the renewal rate for the first quarter of 2022 will be approximately 75.9%. This preliminary renewal rate compares to 76% achieved in the first quarter of 2021 and 74.8% last quarter. We continue to see growth in the domain name base and demand for our domain names.

 



 While there are many factors that drive demand for domain names, we have seen lower new units in the first quarter as a result of a combination of factors. These include the component of growth attributable to the pandemic, which appears to have subsided, as well as recent global macroeconomic factors. For calendar 2022, we now expect a domain name base growth rate of between 1.75% and 3.5%. This updated range reflects the various trends we currently see in our business and our expectation for continued domain name base growth. Our financial and liquidity position remained stable with $1.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities at the end of the quarter. Share repurchases during the first quarter totaled $196 million or 895,000 shares. At quarter end, $893 million remained available and authorized under the current share repurchase program, which has no expiration. We continually evaluate the overall liquidity and investing needs of the business and consider the best uses for our cash, including potential share repurchases. Turning to .web. As we noted on our last call, ICANN's Board directed one of its standing committees to review the independent review panel's final decision and provide the Board with its findings. We understand that process is ongoing, and we don't have any additional information to provide at this time. As we have said before, we continue to look forward to becoming the .web registry operator and establishing it alongside .com and .net as an additional option for businesses and individual end users worldwide. Now I'd like to turn the call over to George.George Kilguss -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jim, and good afternoon, everyone. For the quarter ended March 31, 2022, the company generated revenue of $347 million, up 7.2% from the same quarter of 2021, and delivered operating income of $225 million, up 6.8% from $210 million in the same quarter a year ago. Operating expense totaled $122 million, compared to $118 million last quarter and $113 million for the first quarter a year ago. The year-over-year increase in operating expense is primarily a result of continued investments in personnel and infrastructure. The operating margin in the quarter was 64.8%, compared to 65% for the same quarter a year ago. Net income totaled $158 million, compared to $150 million a year earlier, which produced diluted earnings per share of $1.43 for the first quarter of 2022, compared to $1.33 for the same quarter of 2021. Operating cash flow for the first quarter was $207 million, and free cash flow was $200 million, compared with $198 million and $192 million, respectively, for the first quarter of 2021. I'll now discuss our updated full-year 2022 guidance. Revenue is now expected to be in the range of $1.420 billion to $1.435 billion. This narrowed revenue range guidance reflects the updated domain name base growth rate expectation of between 1.75% and 3.5% that Jim mentioned earlier. The operating margin is still expected to be between 64.5% and 65.5%. Interest expense and nonoperating income net, which includes interest income estimates, is now expected to be an expense of between $65 million to $70 million. Capital expenditures are now expected to be between $35 million to $45 million. And the GAAP effective tax rate is now expected to be between 22% and 25%. We expect the cash tax rate for 2022 to also be within the same guidance range. In summary, VeriSign continued to demonstrate sound financial performance during the first quarter, and we look forward to continuing our focused execution in 2022. Now I'll turn the call back to Jim for his closing remarks.Jim Bidzos -- Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, George. During the first quarter, we continued our work to protect, grow and manage the business while continuing our focus on providing long-term value to our shareholders. In closing, I want to acknowledge again the team here at VeriSign for their hard work in maintaining and operating our critical internet infrastructure even while facing the challenges of working under pandemic conditions. In particular, I want to acknowledge the group of employees who have worked on site continually throughout the pandemic in order to continue our infrastructure functions. And now we'll open the call for your questions. Operator, we're ready for the first question. 