  OperatorPlease stand by, the program is about to begin. [Operator instructions] Welcome to the Xylem fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Matt Latino, vice president of investor relations.Matt Latino -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Ashley. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Xylem's fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. With me today are chief executive officer, Patrick Decker; and chief financial officer, Sandy Rowland. They will provide their perspective on Xylem's fourth quarter and full year 2021 results and discuss the first quarter and full year outlook for 2022.

 



 Following our prepared remarks, we will address questions related to the information covered on the call. I'll ask that you please keep to one question and a follow-up and then return to the queue. As a reminder, this call and our webcast are accompanied by a slide presentation available in the investors section of our website at www.xylem.com. A replay of today's call will be available until midnight on February 10.Please note the replay number is 1 (800) 695-0395 or 1 (402) 220-1388. Additionally, the call will be available for playback via the section of our website under the heading investor events. Please turn to Slide 2. We will make some forward-looking statements on today's call, including references to future events or developments that we anticipate will or may occur in the future. These statements are subject to future risks and uncertainties such as those factors described in Xylem's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and in subsequent reports filed with the SEC. Please note that the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements publicly to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, and actual events or results could differ materially from those anticipated. We have provided you with a summary of our key performance metrics, including both GAAP and non-GAAP metrics in the appendix. For purposes of today's call, all references will be on an adjusted basis, unless otherwise indicated and non-GAAP financials have been reconciled for you and are also included in the appendix section of the presentation. Now please turn to Slide 3, and I will turn the call over to our CEO, Patrick Decker. 

 



Patrick Decker -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Matt, and good morning, everyone. As we indicated in our release this morning, the team delivered a strong operational performance in the fourth quarter, meeting or exceeding our expectations across all major metrics. Despite the challenges that 2021 presented us, especially in the second half, I'm very proud of the team for what they did to deliver on our commitments. And as a team, they delivered a very strong full year performance. This was reflected by mid-single-digit organic revenue growth, solid EBITDA margin expansion of 80 basis points, and adjusted earnings-per-share growth of 21%. And orders grew 23% for the year and in the fourth quarter, giving us very strong momentum coming into 2022. We posted our strongest orders growth in our M&CS segment. And it reflects the need and desire of our customers for digital solutions to address their growing needs around water affordability and infrastructure resilience. Our water infrastructure and applied water segments also posted very strong orders growth for the year and the fourth quarter, demonstrating the healthy demand across our portfolio. We continue to experience very strong underlying demand globally, with double-digit orders growth across all regions, and we expect that momentum to continue throughout 2022 and beyond. And our investments in R&D are clearly paying off, enabling us to win market share due to the customer value we're creating. And our investments in geographic coverage have made significant contributions to our overall growth, especially in emerging markets where we posted double-digit revenue growth in 2021.

 



 Of course, the other side of the story in 2021 was the constrained supply chain challenges of the second half, along with inflation that really accelerated in the last quarter. As we anticipated in our last conference call, the severe chip shortage affecting the entire tech sector held back our ability to convert such strong orders into revenue, especially in our M&CS segment. Against that backdrop, the team did an excellent job managing what we can control, bringing discretionary costs down below 2020 levels, and taking aggressive pricing actions to mitigate inflationary pressures. In fact, price realization in the fourth quarter was modestly higher than our expectations and we expect to offset inflation further as we deliver accretive margins in our backlogs. So despite all of the year's headwinds, the team not only delivered solid operational results, but they did it with heart and purpose. Along the way, we made significant progress toward our 2025 signature sustainability goals. One example of that is that the team set a Xylem record for hours volunteered to solve water challenges in our communities around the world. It's a privilege to be a part of a team with that level of commitment to our mission. Now looking ahead to 2022, we see continued strong demand for our products and solutions, strong fundamentals across our business in terms of productivity and free cash flow conversion, and continued ability to drive price as a market leader to offset inflationary pressures. Nevertheless, our outlook is tempered by the reality of a prolonged chip shortage, limiting the speed at which we can convert orders to revenue. So we are being balanced in our guidance based upon the visibility we have. Our guidance assumes modest and gradual increases in chip supply in the second half and into 2023. And as volumes return, we expect to realize significant margin expansion consistent with the first half of this past year when we operate in a less chip-constrained environment in M&CS, and we see this in the backlog margins we have coming into 2022. In the second half of this year, growth in margin expansion, both gross margin and EBITDA are expected to return to levels that put us on track to deliver on the 2025 strategic and financial framework that we outlined last September at our investor day. In a moment, we'll discuss the assumptions in our 2022 outlook and speak to our intentions for capital deployment, given the strength of our financial and competitive position. But first, I'm going to hand it over to Sandy to dig in briefly on the quarter's results before we turn back to 2022.Sandy Rowland -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Patrick. Please turn to Slide 4, and I'll cover our fourth quarter results. As Patrick indicated, significant chip shortages impacting the utilities end-market in the U.S. more than offset utilities growth in Europe and strong growth in the industrial segment globally. Given the quarter's challenges, the team did an outstanding job delivering on our commitments and increasingly tough circumstances, with particularly strong performance on price, and discipline on costs. In a moment, I'll give you a detailed performance by segment. But in short, utilities was down 9%, a result of supply chain constraints acutely impacting our smart metering business in the U.S. Industrial grew 7% on sustained strength in China and healthy activity in the U.S. commercial was up modestly at 1% and residential was down 4% on challenging comparisons in the prior year when we grew mid-teens. Organic orders were up 23% in the quarter as demand for our technologies continues to be healthy across all segments. EBITDA margin was 16.2%, which was within our guided range. Year-over-year EBITDA margin contracted 260 basis points as productivity savings and strong price realization benefits were more than offset by inflation, mix, and strategic investments. We continue to invest, for example, in geographic market coverage to serve increasing demand and enhanced digital capabilities across the portfolio. Our EPS in the quarter was $0.63. And please turn to Slide 5, and I'll review the quarter's segment performance in a bit more detail. Water infrastructure orders in the fourth quarter were up 30% organically versus last year. That includes a project cancellation last year in India, which we discussed on a previous call. Otherwise, orders were up mid-single digits. This order's pace reflects resilient demand in our wastewater utility business in the U.S. and Europe as well as increasing demand for dewatering, particularly in emerging markets. Water Infrastructure revenue was up modestly in the quarter. Healthy growth in industrial was partly offset by a small decline in our wastewater utility business in the U.S. where order to revenue conversion was challenged by long ocean transit times. Geographically, results were mixed for the segment. The U.S. and Western Europe were up low single digits and mid-single digits, respectively. Healthy treatment deliveries in both geographies were offset by the delays I just mentioned. Emerging markets was down low single digits, largely due to an especially strong performance in China last year. EBITDA margin for the segment was down 50 basis points as significant savings from productivity and cost reductions were offset by inflation and strategic investments. Please turn to Page 6. In the applied water segment, orders were up 10% organically in the quarter, driven by healthy demand in all geographies. Revenues increased 3% with high single-digit growth in industrial and a modest increase in commercial, partially offset by sales down mid-single digits in residential. Geographically, the U.S. was up high single digits. Growth in all end markets was led by ongoing industrial recovery. Emerging markets was up mid-single digits on continuing industrial strength in China and momentum in Eastern Europe. Western Europe delivered low single-digit growth with moderate gains balanced across all end markets. Segment EBITDA margin declined 340 basis points in the quarter. Material and freight inflation more than offset solid productivity gains and accelerating price realization. And now let's turn to Slide 7, and I'll cover our measurement & control solutions business. M&CS orders grew 28% organically in the quarter, reflecting strong demand for our metrology solutions as well as healthy demand across all other applications in this segment, including test and pipeline assessment services. This puts our M&CS backlog up 63% versus the prior year. As we anticipated, revenue declined 17% due to constrained chip supply. It's worth noting that the growing metrology backlog is both resilient and margin accretive. There have been no cancellations of AMI contracts and we expect large project deployments will resume in the back half of the year as component supply becomes available. Geographically, U.S. revenues were down 21%. Western Europe and emerging markets declined more modestly at 10% and 2%, respectively, from pockets of growth in our water quality test business. Segment EBITDA margin in the quarter was down 750 basis points. Volume was the biggest factor as this business gets very strong operating leverage from higher revenues, which were constrained by the lower conversion of orders. Those volume effects, along with higher inflation were partially offset by productivity gains and cost discipline. And now let's turn to Slide 8 for an overview of cash flows and the company's financial position. Our financial position remains robust as we exit the year with $1.3 billion in cash and available liquidity of more than $2 billion. Net debt-to-EBITDA leverage is 1.2 times. After delivering free cash flow conversion of 181% last year, our free cash flow conversion was 77% in 2021, slightly below our target for the year. While our team made continued progress driving collections, we consciously increased our inventory safety stocks in the second half of the year to mitigate supply chain volatility but we remain committed to at least 100% conversion over the cycle. A further item of note. As we previously advised, we are derisking our balance sheet with the buyout of our largest defined pension plan in the U.K. We expect to finalize this transfer in 2022 at which point we'll recognize a non-cash charge of approximately $170 million, primarily consisting of unrecognized actuarial losses, which are reflected in equity today. Lastly, in line with our capital allocation framework. Today, we announced an increase in our annual dividend of 7%, and that is our 11th consecutive annual increase. Please turn to Slide 9, and I'll hand it back to Patrick to look forward at 2022.Patrick Decker -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Sandy. We see strong demand continuing through 2022. And strong fundamentals in all our businesses. On the other hand, the reality is that supply constraints will continue to be an important and not entirely predictable variable. So we are reflecting a responsible set of assumptions in our guidance while working aggressively to improve the situation. We anticipate chip availability will improve for the year, but not linearly, and not all at once. In the first half, shortages are still likely to hold back conversion of orders to revenue with disproportionate impact on our higher-margin solutions. So we'll be focused on operating with discipline, driving price, productivity, and cost during what we foresee being a transitory period. In the second half of the year, supply should begin to improve modestly, and the pace of chip shipments will have a determining effect on our growth rate and margin expansion. As components begin to come through, the margin upside is highly accretive to our margin profile. The positive side of this dynamic was apparent in the first half of 2021 when chip supply did not limit M&CS growth, and we saw margin expansion of more than 500 basis points in the portfolio. Given the size and growth of our metrology backlogs, it's worth expanding on a point Sandy made a moment ago about the resilience of those backlogs. Large AMI projects are not easily substituted and they offer a compelling business case for our customers, particularly as they are addressing issues of affordability and regulatory commitments. Our utility customers often spend years in pilot testing, approval, and procurement to determine these solutions. So despite these near-term delays, we do not anticipate backlog erosion. Turning to Slide 10. You can see our focus areas for 2022, which will keep us aligned to our long-term financial framework. The team is managing through the current challenges with great discipline, working with both suppliers and customers. Even though we expect chip supply will gradually improve in the second half, we don't anticipate suppliers will be able to serve 100% of our requirements given the sheer size of our order books. So we're working with our most critical supply partner to accelerate redesign options, and we're staying close to our customers to prioritize serving their most mission-critical needs. Since visibility about the likely rate of improvement is imperfect we're also phasing our ongoing strategic investments with an eye on leading indicators of supply recovery. Now before I turn to Sandy for more detail on our outlook, I want to comment briefly on capital deployment. We're coming into the year with a strong balance sheet and more than $2 billion in liquidity. So M&A naturally comes to mind as a strategic accelerator for sustained growth and margin expansion. And those of you who've been with us a while, you know that we're not hesitant to do a deal when there's a good deal to be done in service of advancing the company's overall strategy. And our view is that there are opportunities for strategic value creation in the marketplace for a company like us with our financial strength and sector leadership. But we will continue to be disciplined and selective with an eye toward significant value creation. Now I'll turn it back over to Sandy for more on our outlook.Sandy Rowland -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Patrick. We expect underlying demand will continue to be healthy through 2022. However, as Patrick just described, business conditions aren't likely to normalize on an entirely predictable path. So we've taken a view of the year that reflects those dynamics, balancing external constraints and potential upsides. We anticipate our utility business overall, which is just north of 50% of Xylem revenues will grow low single digits in 2022. On the wastewater side, we expect low single-digit to mid-single-digit growth as we see a continuation of resilient global demand. We anticipate strong demand in emerging markets driven by considerable investment in public utilities, increasing opex activity as well as the benefit of our localization strategy. The outlook for longer-term capital project spending and bid activity is very solid globally. On the clean water side, we anticipate revenues will be flat. Demand remains robust, but deliveries will be constrained by chip shortages mentioned earlier. We foresee healthy momentum in our test and assessment services businesses due to increasing focus on infrastructure and climate challenges. And now please turn to Slide 12. Looking at the industrial end market, we expect to grow mid-single digits on steady demand for our solutions globally. We continue to see healthy growth in dewatering especially in emerging markets from increasing mining demand and benefiting from our localization strategies. In the U.S. and Western Europe, we expect solid order rates and backlog expansion as activity ramps in light industrial applications. The commercial end-market should deliver mid-single-digit growth on solid replacement business in the U.S. as well as acceleration of institutional construction. In Europe, we see increased construction activity driven by the rise in funding for green buildings, driving demand for our new eco-friendly product offerings in that space. In residential, our smallest end-market, we are expecting low single-digit to mid-single-digit growth with healthy demand. And now let's turn to Slide 13, and I'll walk you through our updated guidance. For Xylem overall, we foresee full year 2022 organic revenue growth in the range of 3% to 5%, with flat revenues in the first half and high single-digit growth in the second half. This breaks down by segment as follows: Mid-single-digit growth in water infrastructure with solid growth in both wastewater utilities and industrial. Mid-single-digit growth in applied water from solid mid-single-digit growth in industrial and commercial applications and low to mid-single-digit growth in residential. We expect measurement & control solutions to be flattish. As Patrick mentioned earlier, this assumes down double digits in this half of the year and up double digits in the second half. Although growth is still likely to be partially constrained by the gradual return of chip supply as the second half progresses. Despite that partial recoverability and the availability of chips, volumes and margins will remain supply constrained. The constraint will have an unfavorable impact on volume and mix, more than offsetting the benefits of price realization and productivity savings through the year. For 2022, we expect adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of 16% to 17%. In the first half of the year, we anticipate EBITDA will be approximately 14% to 15%, bouncing back to 18% to 19% in the second half. And this puts EBITDA in the second half in line with the long-term targets we laid out at investor day. This yields an adjusted EPS range of $2.35 to $2.70. Free cash flow conversion is expected to be at least 100% of net income. We have provided you with other full year assumptions on this slide to supplement your models. We're assuming a euro to dollar conversion rate of 1.13 and as foreign exchange can be volatile, FX sensitivity table is included in the appendix. And now drilling down in the first quarter, we anticipate total company organic revenues will be in the range of flat to up 2%. This includes mid-single-digit growth in water infrastructure and applied water and M&CS is expected to decline low double digits. We expect first quarter adjusted EBITDA margin to be in the range of 13.5% to 14%, impacted by higher inflation and supply chain challenges. We expect this will be the low point in adjusted EBITDA in the year with accelerating sequential quarterly improvement. And with that, please turn to Slide 14, and I'll turn the call back over to Patrick for closing comments.Patrick Decker -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Sandy. We're coming into 2022 in a strong and enviable position. The market demand for our solutions and technologies has never been greater. We have strong commercial momentum with very strong orders growth and high-margin backlogs that prove our conviction about the investments we've been making and our customers need and appetite and the foundation and flexibility of a powerful balance sheet, giving us strategic options in a dynamic marketplace. In the short term, of course, no one likes being constrained by externalities. But we have strong resolve and operating discipline and fully expect to deliver a year of results on track with our 2025 strategic and financial goals and that are aligned to our overall investment thesis, that of being a technology leader with a durable business model, bringing differentiated offerings to a market of rising demand for sustainable water solutions, committed to driving above-market growth and margin expansion as our portfolio continues to digitize, and to accelerating value creation with disciplined active capital allocation. So now operator, I'll turn the call over to you for questions. 