  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the Hologic First Quarter 2022 earnings conference call. My name is Ron, and I'm your operator for today's call. Today's conference is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute. I would now like to introduce Ryan Simon, vice president, investor relations, to begin the call.Ryan Simon -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Ron. Good afternoon and thank you for joining Hologic's first quarter fiscal 2022 earnings call. With me today are Steve MacMillan, the company's chairman, president, and chief executive officer; and Karleen Oberton, our chief financial officer. Our first quarter press release is available now on the investors section of our website along with an updated corporate presentation. We will also post our prepared remarks to our website shortly after we deliver them. And a replay of this call will be available through March 4. Before we begin, I would like to inform you that certain statements we make today will be forward-looking. These statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.Such factors include those referenced in the safe harbor statement included in our earnings release and SEC filings. Also during this call, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to GAAP can be found in our earnings release. One of these non-GAAP measures is organic revenue, which we define as constant-currency revenue, excluding the divested blood screening business and revenue from acquired businesses owned by Hologic for less than one year. Finally, any percentage changes we discuss will be on a year-over-year basis, and revenue growth rates will be in constant currency unless otherwise noted. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Steve MacMillan, Hologic's CEO.  Steve MacMillan -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Ryan, and good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased to discuss our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Once again, our results are strong. We are off to a great start in all divisions with diagnostics, breast and skeletal health, and surgical, each delivering more than 8% global organic growth, excluding COVID revenue. For the quarter, revenue was $1.47 billion and non-GAAP earnings per share were $2.17. Both numbers significantly exceeded the high end of our guidance by 28% on the top line and 74% on the bottom. Over the last several quarters, and most recently at the JPMorgan conference, we've been communicating three major themes. First, our base business is stronger with more diverse growth drivers than ever before. Second, as the COVID pandemic remains, we continue to help meet the world's testing needs and generate financial upside. And third, because of the first two points, we are well-positioned to generate strong results regardless of how various uncertainties evolve from the pandemic to supply chain challenges to healthcare utilization. In other words, you can count on us to deliver in today's uncertain business environment. These themes are certainly playing out as we look at our first quarter results and our dramatically improved outlook for the fiscal year. Our base businesses are performing well, and we are making a massive difference against COVID. As a result, we are raising our revenue and earnings guidance significantly as we expect upside from COVID-19 testing, along with strength in our diagnostics and surgical businesses to more than compensate for temporary supply chain challenges that have emerged in our breast health business. As we shared at JPMorgan, we are a fundamentally different company than eight years ago. Now more than ever before, Hologic has more diverse and higher-margin recurring revenue across each division in each geography around the world. Our strong performance is a result of execution against our strategic plan and has been accelerated by our financial success during the pandemic. As evidenced by our Q1 results, we are well-positioned for long-term sustainable growth regardless of the direction the pandemic may turn. While we can't predict the future path of COVID, we'd like to expand today on what we do know, that Hologic is emerging from this pandemic a much stronger company. More specifically, we will focus on what we know in each division that gives us clear confidence in our ability to maintain sustained growth over the long term. First, in our diagnostics division, we know that our huge industry-leading installed base of automated high-throughput Panther systems along with our robust menu of 19 assays across Panther and Panther Fusion will drive strong growth well into the future. Today, our Panther installed base is over 3,000 units, 75% larger than prior to the pandemic, with almost half of these placed internationally. Of note, demand for our Panthers is still strong globally. We placed well over 100 Panthers in the first quarter alone, more than double our pace prior to the pandemic. At this stage in the pandemic, this clearly indicates that customers expect to use these systems for non-COVID testing. Utilization of our Panther systems is also strong. We are seeing clear signs that customers are leveraging our menu of 19 assays on our significantly expanded Panther footprint. First and foremost, the growth of molecular diagnostic sales reflects this growing utilization. For Q1, our core molecular diagnostics franchise grew 14% worldwide, excluding COVID revenues, product discontinuations, as well as recent M&A activity. Now we know a question on some people's minds is, will these Panthers be used post pandemic. The answer is an emphatic yes based on the following: First, nearly 90% of U.S. COVID customers are already running at least one other assay. This speaks to our customers being bonafide molecular diagnostics players who are invested in molecular testing for the long haul and who we expect will adopt more of our assays over time. And second, the incredible automation and workflow simplicity of the Panther, which dramatically minimizes labor activity and costs. In a labor restricted world, our customers realize the enormous advantage of our Panther system. Extending and broadening the adoption of our portfolio of assays is a fundamental element of the Diagnostic growth strategy. Our sales teams have done a tremendous job winning strategic accounts, strengthening our relationship with customers, and fueling our razor-razorblade business model with both legacy women's health tests and new assays. As an example, leveraging our leadership in women's health, our vaginitis panel is off to a great start with $13 million of revenue in the first quarter, roughly two and a half times the first quarter of 2021. We are extremely proud of the panel's success and believe this will be our most successful Diagnostic launch ever, COVID aside. In Q1, we also once again responded to our customers' COVID testing needs and generated significant financial upside. We posted $523 million in COVID assay sales, over $300 million more than our outlook and consensus. Clearly, COVID is sticking around longer than anyone would like. And just as clearly, highly accurate molecular testing continues to play a major role in fighting the pandemic. We continue to believe COVID testing will contribute materially to our business for the foreseeable future, and we remain prepared to meet ongoing demand globally. Second, shifting to our breast and skeletal health business. We know that broadening across the continuum of breast healthcare from screening and diagnosis through surgery and treatment has transformed this franchise from a once capital-dependent business to a division with more diverse, higher growth recurring revenue. In the first quarter, the breast health business grew 8.4% as we've maintained our high market share and continue to grow our installed base of Genius 3D Mammography systems. The attachment rate of service on this gantry base continues to remain strong at more than 80%, making service one of our largest top-line contributors companywide. And we continue to upgrade our installed base with high-margin software and AI. The mammography capital business is and will continue to be a meaningful and foundational part of our breast business going forward. In addition, we've built a solid adjacent portfolio of more recurring interventional breast surgery products that is driving the growth of the division. These interventional products include markers, needles, including those used in our Brevera biopsy system, and handheld devices. Sales are more recurring in nature with higher projected growth compared to the legacy capital business. As point of reference, today, the gantry business is only 23% of breast health revenue compared to 29% in 2014, and interventional sales have grown to roughly the same size as gantry revenue. We expect the interventional business to continue its growth and further transform our breast and skeletal division going forward. The increasing diversity of our breast business will help us offset supply chain challenges that have emerged recently, specifically shortages of computer chips in our mammography and other imaging systems. Our updated guidance incorporates a temporary but meaningful revenue headwind for the balance of our fiscal year. Despite this, as Karleen will discuss, we are raising our revenue and EPS guidance significantly based on outperformance in COVID, core molecular and surgical. Now shifting gears to surgical. We know that the diversification of the business will drive growth. Despite pandemic headwinds, the division grew 8.2% in the first quarter, and we continued to solidify our market-leading positions for NovaSure and MyoSure. With the addition of the Acessa procedure and the close of the Bolder acquisition in late November, our surgical business has a very different profile today with more growth engines than ever. Acessa revenue in Q1 was nearly three times a year ago, and the Bolder integration is off to a great start as we are already seeing Bolder sales through the Hologic surgical sales team. The recent launch of NovaSure Version 5 developed in-house is also seeing good traction. It's early days, but we are seeing a lot of excitement in the field around this product. We are committed to maintaining our leadership position in this space with best-in-class products. Further, the Fluent fluid management system also developed in-house is used to streamline the complexities of fluid management in hysteroscopic procedures. Fluent is another great example of organic innovation driving future growth. Fourth and finally, we know that our international business will be a consistent contributor of growth for years to come. We are no longer the export business of prior years. Through organic growth and M&A, we are direct in more regions than ever before, especially in breast health, with our feet firmly on the street and engaged with customers. In Q1, the international business achieved nearly 13% organic growth, excluding COVID, and we expect strong growth to continue. With the leaders we have in place today, we are confident the foundation we've laid and the progress we've made will yield strong results for many years to come. To add additional perspective, there are over 3.9 billion women in the world with only about 170 million of them in the United States, which is our largest market today. Clearly, we have an opportunity to impact more lives and more women around the world. Through our groundbreaking initiatives like the Hologic Global Women's Health Index, in conjunction with the opportunity we've earned as leaders in the fight against COVID, we are connecting with world leaders and change-makers to elevate women's health around the world. In summary, our first quarter results and improved outlook demonstrate that Hologic is a much different and much stronger business than ever before, stronger through diversification and stronger from our leadership in COVID molecular testing. These factors are generating exceptional cash flows and a pristine balance sheet that are especially valuable in the midst of uncertain market conditions. As we've done for the duration of this pandemic, we are confident in our ability to manage our business through various uncertainties and continue to deliver strong growth regardless of how external conditions evolve. What is clear to us at Hologic is that we are poised to continue our strong growth. Whether COVID wanes or continues, we have fundamentally changed our business into one with more growth drivers and more recurring revenue across all geographies. This gives us the clear confidence that we can navigate change and continue to generate exceptional financial results. With that, let me turn the call over to Karleen.Karleen Oberton -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Steve, and good afternoon, everyone. We are very pleased to share first quarter results that have significantly exceeded our guidance on both the top line and bottom line. Our first quarter highlights an improving base business that grew 9% organically, excluding COVID-19 revenues. As Steve mentioned, our diversified business model is paying off. Each of our franchises, excluding COVID, grew more than 8% in the quarter, broadly exceeding our long-term revenue growth target of 5% to 7%. It is also important to note that our base business strength occurred in a quarter that started with the delta wave and ended with COVID cases surging due to omicron. Total revenues for the quarter of $1.47 billion showcased strength in every business and was significantly ahead of our previous guidance. EPS of $2.17 in the first quarter far surpassed our initial guidance range of $1.15 to $1.25. We also continue to generate healthy free cash flow, funding our capital deployment priorities of tuck-in M&A and share repurchases. We believe our balance sheet is a significant advantage in times of market uncertainty, which I'll touch on shortly. Before I do that, let me provide some detail on our divisional revenue results. To provide clarity on our performance, I will exclude the impact of COVID-19 where applicable. In diagnostics, global revenue of $950.4 million declined 15.2% compared to the prior year. However, excluding COVID assay sales, related ancillary items, and a small level of discontinued products, worldwide diagnostics revenue increased just over 10%. To better understand the underlying performance of our non-COVID molecular business, I will again exclude COVID-19 benefits. By doing this, base molecular revenue grew about 14% organically in the first quarter. The growth was driven by strong execution across our global portfolio as our largest non-COVID assay, chlamydia-gonorrhea was above prepandemic levels. Our newer vaginitis panel contributed well ahead of last year's run rate. And internationally, we continue to see strong demand for our Panther instrumentation. For perspective, our annual molecular business, excluding COVID, is now more than $100 million larger than before the pandemic. As it relates to our COVID-19 results, we continue to forecast conservatively but act aggressively behind the scenes to meet demand for our customers. In the quarter, we generated $523 million of COVID assay revenue and shipped about 26 million tests to our customers. The United States represented about 60% of total COVID assay revenue although demand was high around the world. Rounding out diagnostics, cytology, and perinatal grew 5% compared to the prior year, a nice result that was also above 2019 levels. In breast health, global revenue of $359.3 million grew more than 8%. This growth was driven by our Interventional business as Steve highlighted, which was up nearly 20% in the quarter. Breast imaging and service also increased mid-single digits in the period, underscoring resilience in the face of COVID headwinds. Our strategy to diversify and increase recurring revenue continues to pay off. In surgical, first quarter revenue of $134.3 million grew 8%. This solid performance was driven by a nice rebound in NovaSure from the launch of our next-generation B5 system, as well as momentum from new products such as Fluent and Acessa. While our surgical business was impacted by pullbacks in electric procedures, the impact was minimal in the quarter. We continue to stay close to our customers, monitoring the omicron surge in related staffing issues, which we do expect to be a headwind in Q2. Lastly, our skeletal business had revenue of $27.1 million, increased 10% compared to the prior-year period. Now let's move on to the rest of the P&L for the first quarter. Gross margin of 72.1% significantly beat our forecast, driven by higher-than-expected COVID-19 test volumes in the period. Total operating expenses of $333.9 million increased 22% in the first quarter but were down 5% sequentially compared to Q4. We continue to reinvest for future growth with incremental spending in R&D and marketing, pulling forward initiatives given the benefit from COVID-19. Further, within our operating expenses, the inclusion of recent acquisitions accounted for a spend of approximately $30 million in Q1, and we also made additional charitable donations in the quarter. Finally, our non-GAAP tax rate in Q1 was 21.5% as expected. Putting these pieces together, operating margin came in well above our forecast at 49.4% and net margin was a very strong 37.7%. Non-GAAP net income finished at $554.7 million, and non-GAAP earnings per share was $2.17, nearly 75% above the top end of our prior guidance. Moving on, cash flow from operations was $564 million in the first quarter, a very strong result which was more than 100% of non-GAAP net income. These robust cash flows continue to give us tremendous financial and strategic flexibility. For example, in the quarter, we repurchased 2.3 million shares of our stock for $167 million and closed the acquisition of Bolder Surgical for $160 million. We continue to evaluate M&A that strategically fits well within our existing sales channels or the near adjacency. Based on our strong operational performance, we had $1.4 billion of cash on our balance sheet at the end of the first quarter, and our leverage ratio was 0.6 times. Our capital structure is as strong as it has ever been. And we intend to deploy our excess cash on division-led acquisitions, as well as share repurchases that improve our top and bottom-line growth rates. For example, we have been buying shares under our 10b5-1 plan within our second fiscal quarter to take advantages of market volatility. Finally, ROIC was 29.4% on a trailing 12-month basis, an increase of 270 basis points compared to the prior year. Before we discuss our increased guidance for the second quarter and full year fiscal 2022, I want to mention a few key points. Although the pandemic remains highly uncertain, we believe we are well-positioned either way it may turn. Should there be future outbreaks, we will meet our customers' needs and generate additional COVID testing revenue, or should the pandemic subside, we expect strong performance in our base businesses. We believe we are nicely hedged against macro and market volatility. As it relates to supply chain headwinds, these challenges have become more specific in recent weeks. Due to the lack of available chips, we expect a temporary shortage of supply that will lengthen delivery timelines for mammography capital in our breast health division. While we hope to mitigate these effects, for conservatism, we are estimating around $200 million of revenue will be pushed out of fiscal 2022. This includes up to $50 million headwind in our second quarter as we are proactively beginning to extend lead times of new units to preserve inventory and maintain service continuity for gantries already in the field. This headwind is purely a supply issue and not one of underlying demand, which remains strong. Despite the supply shortage, we are significantly increasing our full year revenue outlook. Underscoring the evolution of our diversified business model, we expect our diagnostics and surgical businesses along with COVID contributions to more than offset the market headwinds. Now let me move on to our specific guidance. In the second quarter of fiscal 2022, we expect very strong financial results again with total revenue in the range of $1.25 billion to $1.3 billion. As a reminder, our Q2 revenue is usually seasonally lower than Q1. For all of fiscal 2022, we expect total revenue in the range of $4.4 billion to $4.55 billion, significantly exceeding our prior full year guidance by $600 million at the midpoint. Given the recent strength of the U.S. dollar and to aid with constant-currency modeling, we are assuming foreign exchange headwinds of approximately $23 million in the second quarter of 2022 and $56 million for the full year. In diagnostics, molecular continues to be the growth engine based on our larger Panther installed base of over 3,000 instruments globally. Further, we are seeing encouraging uptake of new assays like our vaginitis panel, as well as tremendous international expansion opportunities and a rebound in our core STI assays. As a result, for fiscal 2022, we expect our base diagnostics franchise inclusive of cytology and perinatal to grow high single digits. In breast health, our organic and inorganic investments continue to perform well. For example, Brevera is off to a great start in 2022, growing in the high teens for the quarter. Further, recurring service revenue represents approximately 40% of total sales in Q1. Finally, in surgical, we expect MyoSure to continue to drive growth with help from better NovaSure performance. In addition, we expect new products and the recent acquisitions of Acessa and Bolder to add momentum to an already fast-growing franchise. Like base diagnostics, we expect surgical to grow our long-term organic guidance -- grow above, I'm sorry, our long-term organic guidance for fiscal 2022. In terms of COVID assay sales, the only certainty is that no one really knows how demand will progress for the rest of the year. Therefore, as we have done for the past several quarters, we are forecasting conservatively and will act aggressively. With that in mind, we expect COVID assay sales to be at least $400 million in the second quarter of 2022 and at least $1 billion for the full year. COVID-related items, including revenue from discontinued products in diagnostics, are expected to be approximately $50 million in the second quarter and $190 million for the full year. As a reminder, our organic guidance backs out of revenue from acquisitions until the first full quarter after the deals annualize, as well as revenue from our divested blood screening business. We expect blood screening revenue of $5 million to $6 million in Q2 and $20 million to $25 million for the full year. In total, we are backing out roughly $110 million of inorganic revenue for the year. To appreciate the underlying growth of our business, it is important to back out of organic revenue COVID assay sales-related ancillary items and a small amount of discontinued product revenue in diagnostics. On this measure, and excluding the previously mentioned supply chain headwinds in breast health, we expect the rest of Hologic to grow at least at the high end of our 5% to 7% long-term guidance. Moving down the P&L. For the full year, we forecast our gross margin percentages in the mid-60s and our operating margin percentage to be in the mid to high 30s. Both estimates are higher than our guidance last quarter. We expect both percentages to decline sequentially throughout the year, consistent with our conservative planning that most COVID demand will occur in the first half. In addition, we have incorporated additional inflationary supply chain costs into our guidance as it relates to electronics, plastics, and logistics. Despite this, for the full year, both gross and operating margins should be well above prepandemic levels. In terms of operating expenses, we expect spending to be up compared to 2021 but declined sequentially in the back half of the year. As we've continued to highlight in quarters with higher COVID testing revenue, we will take the opportunity to invest more for future growth. Below operating income, we expect other expenses net to be a little less than $25 million a quarter for the remainder of the year. Our guidance is based on an effective tax rate of 21.5% and diluted shares outstanding of around 256 million for the full year. All these nets out to expected EPS of $1.50 to $1.60 in the second quarter, well above current consensus estimates and $4.90 to $5.20 for the full year, 36% above our prior guidance at the midpoint. As you update your forecast, let me remind you that macro uncertainty due to the pandemic and related supply chain challenge is still high. We would therefore encourage you to model at the middle of our ranges, which incorporate both potential upsides and downsides. Let me wrap up by saying that Hologic posted very strong first quarter results that far exceeded expectations and guidance. We are also significantly raising our financial guidance for the year, highlighting the multiple growth drivers we have added to each of our franchises and the upside to our business from capturing demand for COVID testing. With organic investments, multiple acquisitions, and additional financial flexibility for capital deployment, we are a much stronger company than two years ago and well-positioned to prosper in the face of various uncertainties. With that, I will ask the operator to open the call for questions. Please limit your questions to one plus a related follow-up, then return to the queue. Operator, we are ready for the first question.  