
OperatorWelcome to the SolarEdge conference call for the third quarter ended September 30, 2021. This call is being webcast live on the company's website at www.solaredge.com in the Investors section on the Event Calendar page.This call is the sole property and copyright of SolarEdge with all rights reserved, and any recording, reproduction or transmission of this call without the expressed written consent of SolarEdge is prohibited.You may listen to a webcast replay of this call by visiting the Event calendar page on the SolarEdge investor website. I would now like to turn the call over to Erica Mannion at Sapphire Investor Relations, Investor Relations for SolarEdge. Ma'am, please begin.

 



Erica L. Mannion -- PresidentGood afternoon. Thank you for joining us to discuss SolarEdge's operating results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2021, as well as the company's outlook for the fourth quarter of 2021. With me today is Zvi Lando, Chief Executive Officer; and Ronen Faier, Chief Financial Officer. Zvi will begin with a brief review of the results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2021.Ronen will review the financial results for the third quarter, followed by the company's outlook for the fourth quarter of 2021. We will then open the call for questions. Please note, the call will include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's current expectations.We encourage you to review the safe harbor statements contained in our press release and the slides published today for a more complete description. All material contained in the webcast is the sole property and copyright of SolarEdge Technologies with all rights reserved. Please note, this presentation describes certain non-GAAP measures, including non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net diluted earnings per share, which are not measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

 



The non-GAAP measures are presented in this presentation as we believe they provide investors with the means of evaluating and understanding how the company's management evaluates the company's operating performance. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from, as substitutes for or superior to financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.Listeners who do not have a copy of the quarter ended September 30, 2021, press release or the supplemental materials, may obtain a copy by visiting the Investors section of the company's website. Now I will turn the call over to Zvi.Zvi Lando -- Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Erica. Good afternoon, and thank you all for joining us on our conference call. We are happy to be announcing a record revenue quarter of $526 million. We are seeing growing demand for our existing products across all segments and regions and strong interest in our pipeline of new products. In fact, we have already secured orders for delivery in Q4 and in Q1 of more than four gigawatts of AC nameplate inverters compared to 1.9 gigawatts that we shipped in this quarter, and we are still receiving additional orders for this period.

 



In today's call, I will address the temporary headwinds that we are facing on the operational side, which will clarify our next quarter guidance which does not fully reflect the high demand for our products and our anticipated continued growth. In the last earnings release, we updated that production in our factory in Vietnam have been partially suspended due to a government-enforced, COVID-related lockdown. We explained that assuming the interruption would be short as we were expecting at the time, we would compensate for it by increasing capacity in our other factories, and this is indeed what we did.However, the shutdown ended up being longer and more extensive than expected, practically putting to a halt our manufacturing capacity in Vietnam for 12 weeks. Prior to this event, the Vietnam factory was providing between 20% and 25% of our capacity and the vast majority of our nontariff shipments to the U.S. market. So while we increased capacity in the other sites to partially compensate for it, this shutdown created a gap in supply of products for the fourth quarter that will take some time to replenish and which will come at a higher cost due to the need for expedited shipments and due to tariffs from shipping more China-made products to the U.S. We are, therefore, guiding moderate revenue growth for the fourth quarter at a reduced gross margin.The production in the Vietnam factory resumed October one and is gradually ramping back to full capacity, which is expected in mid-November. Unrelated to these events in Vietnam, we have been working for some time to build redundancy and expand our manufacturing footprint with a new contract manufacturing site in Mexico. We expect first products to ship from the facility in the first half of 2022. And once ramped, this site will significantly increase our capacity and give us further flexibility to manage growing demand from the U.S. markets. As is indicated in our record revenue results in the third quarter, we experienced healthy demand for our products and ended the quarter with record backlog.While this is not a data point we usually provide and do not plan to do in the future, it is reflective of the commitments of our customers and their strong demand for our products. To that end, other than in some unique cases of extreme logistical costs, where we will share some of those costs with our customers, order level, we do not currently plan to increase prices on deliveries this year. Our customers have trusted us with their early orders, and we value their loyalty.To sum up this topic, we are happy with the record third quarter results and are focused on quickly closing the capacity gap created from the temporary factory closure in Vietnam, while ensuring we are meeting the needs of our customers. I'd like to share now some new product news, which is a big part of the demand increase we are seeing. The first is our Energy Bank residential battery. Production of the batteries is ramping at a good pace, and we have installations already in the U.S., Italy, Germany, England, Belgium and first deliveries in Australia.This quarter, we manufactured and shipped approximately 20-megawatt hour of Energy Bank batteries, a bit below what we had anticipated. In Q4, we expect to ship approximately 70-megawatt hour compensating for the delays from this quarter. By the end of the first quarter of 2022, we expect to reach production output of 300 Energy Bank batteries per day or 180-megawatt hours per quarter. In parallel to ramping battery shipments, we continue to see strong demand for our Energy Hub Inverter, where shipments were up from 21,000 units in the second quarter to 37,000 units in the third quarter.We also began shipments of the high-powered version of the Energy Hub Inverter with up to 11.4 kilowatt AC nameplate capacity and industry-leading 10.3 kilowatt continuous backup power per inverter. Considering the current trends of increased electrification and needs for resilience, we expect average system size and the required power consumption in case of backup to increase as well, and as such, increased adoption of this configuration due to its capacity and power level.The availability of this inverter will also provide cost savings for our customers, who until today, in many cases, have used multiple inverters to achieve these capacities and power levels. As battery attach rates and the interest in resilience intensifies, we are seeing strong interest globally in the combined Energy Hub, Energy Bank solution, which offers a DC-coupled system that harvests more of the energy generated by the modules and feeds it into the battery, even when the power generated by the solar system exceeds the nameplate capacity of the inverter.An additional milestone on the product front is that we began installations in Japan of our JET-certified HD Wave inverter, which through a built-in AC socket enables direct power consumption from solar in case of power outage. This is a significant step for SolarEdge toward opening the large residential market in Japan where this capability is mandated by regulation. Shifting to our offering of optimizers. In the third quarter, we began shipments in some regions of our fourth-generation optimizer that among other improvements, enables high efficiency optimization of newer-generation solar modules with higher electrical currents.Additionally, this new optimizer is designed to incorporate the new safety mechanism. In some cases, electrical arcs and safety events are caused by loose connectors or damage caused to cabling from rodents or other various causes. In the new optimizer, we have incorporated a capability that actively measures the temperature at the connectors to detect excessive heat even before it turns into electrical arc. This past quarter, we shipped more than 200,000 of these S-Series generation four optimizers, and we will continue to ramp in the coming quarters.On the commercial side, we continue to see increased activity driven, among other reasons, by corporations looking to reduce their carbon footprint via solar installations on their facilities. Many of these corporations choose the SolarEdge solution due to our safety and monitoring capabilities. In many cases, we are leveraging success at one site for global proliferation to other sites of these international corporations. On the smaller utility side, this quarter, we installed our first ground mount installation of our new 330-kilowatt inverter.This one megawatt installation has three inverters and thousands of optimizers. These new 1.3 kilowatt optimizers are especially designed for this inverter from a performance and cost point of view, and to fit the solar modules typically used in ground mount installation that are typically high power, and in many cases, bifacial. The experience from this installation will assist us as we ramp reduction in sales of this offering in 2022. Turning to our nonsolar business, where we had a record quarter in revenues driven from our nonsolar storage business.This is despite the lower-than-planned shipments in the e-mobility business due to instability in the automotive industry. While our ability to deliver has ramped on schedule, considering the current trends in the automotive industry, we expect to end up delivering approximately $70 million from the e-Mobility business for 2021. I will now hand it over to Ronen, who will review our financial results. Ronen?Ronen Faier -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Zvi, and good afternoon, everyone. This financial review includes a GAAP and non-GAAP discussion. Full reconciliation of the pro forma to GAAP results discussed on this call is available on our website and in the press release issued today. Segment profit is comprised of gross profit of the segment less operating expenses that do not include amortization, stock-based compensation, expenses and certain other items.Total revenues for the third quarter were a record $526.4 million, a 10% increase compared to $480.1 million last quarter and a 56% increase compared to $338.1 million for the same quarter last year. Revenues from the solar segment were a record $476.8 million, an 11% increase compared to $431.4 million last quarter and a 53% increase compared to $312.5 million for the same quarter last year.Overall, this quarter, we shipped approximately 4.7 million power optimizers and approximately 231,000 inverters. U.S. solar revenues this quarter were $188.6 million and represented 39.5% of our solar revenues. Solar revenues from Europe were a record $234.5 million or 49.2% of our solar revenues. The revenues in Europe were driven by record results in Germany and Italy, which grew over 50% quarter-over-quarter as well as record revenues in Poland and France.Rest of the world solar revenues were $53.7 million or 11.3% of our total solar revenues. The revenues in rest of the world were led by sales in Australia, Japan and Israel and record quarter in Taiwan and Thailand. On a megawatt basis, we shipped 592 megawatts to the United States, 1,029 megawatts to Europe and 282 megawatts to the rest of the world. 39% of this amount was commercial products and the remaining 61% were residential.ASP per watt, excluding battery revenues this quarter, was $0.255, a 5.2% decrease from $0.269 last quarter, resulting from a lower portion of U.S. shipments and customer mix as well as higher proportion of inverters in our overall mix. This quarter, our top 10 solar customers represented 63.8% of our solar revenues. Two U.S. customers accounted for more than 10% of our solar revenues each.This quarter, revenues from our nonsolar business were a record $49.5 million, led by record sales of lithium-ion batteries from our nonsolar storage business. GAAP gross margins for the quarter was 32.8% compared to 32.5% in the prior quarter and 32% in the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP gross margin this quarter was 34% compared to 33.9% in the prior quarter and 33.5% in the same quarter last year.Gross margin for the solar segment was 36.6% compared to 37.4% in the prior quarter. As detailed by Zvi, the solar segment gross margin was negatively impacted by measures taken to compensate for our temporary shutdown of our manufacturing facility in Vietnam. This shutdown, which was compensated by more deliveries from our China factory, reduced our nontariff shipments to a 53% of the products sent to the United States this quarter compared to 88% in the second quarter.In total, the additional logistic costs and tariffs, together with some component and raw material price increases added 110 basis points compared to our previous quarter. Our accrual for future warranty claims also rose this quarter, partially because of the increase in product costs and partially due to the increase in our overall installed base.We expect this phenomenon to continue in the fourth quarter. Gross margin for our nonsolar segment was 8.7% compared to 3.3% in the previous quarter due to healthy margins from the storage business and continued improvement of margins in the e-Mobility business. On a non-GAAP basis, operating expenses for the third quarter were $83.8 million or 15.9% of revenues compared to $81.5 million or 17% of revenues in the prior quarter and $63.2 million or 18.7% of revenues for the same quarter last year.This growth year-over-year reflects continued investment in our expansion of our R&D and sales capabilities. Our solar segment operating expenses as a percentage of solar revenues were 14.6% compared to 15.8% last quarter. Non-GAAP operating income was -- for the quarter was a record $95.2 million compared to $81.3 million in the previous quarter and $50 million for the same period last year.This quarter, solar segment generated a record operating profit of $104.9 million compared to an operating profit of $92.9 million last quarter. This number represents 22% of our solar revenues and is above the midpoint of our 20% to 23% long-term operating profit model. The nonsolar segment generated an operating loss of $9.7 million, an improvement compared to an operating loss of $11.6 million in the previous quarter.Non-GAAP financial expenses for the quarter was $3 million compared to non-GAAP financial income of $1.7 million in the previous quarter. Our non-GAAP tax expense was $10.1 million compared to $10.5 million in the previous quarter and $1.6 million for the same period last year. GAAP net income for the third quarter was $53 million compared to a GAAP net income of $45.1 million in the previous quarter and $43.8 million in the same quarter last year.Our non-GAAP net income was $82.1 million compared to a non-GAAP net income of $72.5 million in the previous quarter and $65.9 million in the same quarter last year. GAAP net diluted earnings per share was $0.96 for the third quarter compared to $0.82 in the previous quarter and $0.83 in the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP net diluted EPS was $1.45 compared to $1.28 in the previous quarter and $1.21 in the same quarter last year.Turning now to our balance sheet. As of September 30, 2021, cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits, restricted bank deposits and investments were $1.2 billion. Net of debt, cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits, restricted bank deposits and investments were $524.1 million. During the third quarter of 2021, we generated $61.8 million of cash flow from operations.Accounts receivable net increased this quarter to $416.2 million compared to $343.7 million last quarter. Day sales outstanding this quarter in the solar business was 90 days, an increase from 76 days last quarter, a result of higher revenues generated in the later part of the quarter and an increase in sales to large customers that enjoy more favorable credit terms in the overall mix.As of September 30, 2021, our inventory level net of reserves was at $304.7 million compared to $321.9 million in the prior quarter. Most of this reduction is related to lower level of finished goods in the solar segment, while raw material level increased in the solar segment to support manufacturing amid the global component shortages and slightly decreased in the nonsolar segment.Turning to our guidance for the fourth quarter of 2021. As explained throughout this call, due to the shutdown of our factory in Vietnam in the third quarter and its gradual return to normal operations and in light of the strong demand, our fourth quarter guidance is for moderate growth at temporary reduced gross margin.As such, for the fourth quarter of 2021, we are guiding revenues to be within the range of $530 million to $560 million. Revenues from the solar segment are expected to be within the range of $490 million and $515 million. In the fourth quarter, we expect to ship approximately 70-megawatt hour of residential storage systems to the United States and Europe as we continue to ramp the manufacturing of this product.We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be within the range of 30% to 32%. Gross margin for the solar segment is expected to be within the range of 31% to 34%. Before opening the line for questions, I would like to update that we are planning for an Analyst Day to be held toward the end of the first quarter of 2022. We will, of course, announce the specific date closer to this time. Operator, we can now take questions, please.