  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to Skyworks Solutions' first quarter fiscal year 2020 earnings call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I will turn the call over to Mitch Haws, investor relations for Skyworks. Mr. Haws, please go ahead.Mitch Haws -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Rachel. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Skyworks' first fiscal quarter 2022 conference call. With me today are Liam Griffin, our chairman, CEO, and president; and Kris Sennesael, our chief financial officer. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that our discussion will include statements relating to future results and expectations that are or may be considered forward-looking statements. Please refer to our earnings release and recent SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for information on certain risks that could cause actual outcomes to differ materially and adversely from any forward-looking statements made today. Additionally, the results and guidance we will discuss include non-GAAP financial measures consistent with our past practice. Please refer to our press release within the investor relations section of our company website for a complete reconciliation to GAAP. With that, I'll turn the call to Liam.Liam Griffin -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Mitch, and welcome, everyone. Skyworks delivered a strong start to the fiscal year, establishing all-time quarterly records for revenue and free cash flow. Looking at the quarter in more detail. We delivered revenue of $1.51 billion, above consensus and up 15% sequentially, demonstrating the strength of our broadening product portfolio. Specifically, the mobile business grew 12% sequentially, driven by increasingly complex architectures in 5G phones at our largest customer and momentum across the Android ecosystem. In parallel, our broad markets business achieved a record $477 million in the quarter, up 23% sequentially and 46% year over year. Our growth was fueled by both the continued adoption of our solutions across 5G, IoT, automotive and wireless infrastructure, and an expanding set of new customers and markets from our recently acquired I&A business. Importantly, Skyworks continues to drive strong profit margins and exceptional cash flow. We achieved gross margin of 51.2% and operating margin of 38.8%. We posted earnings per share of $3.14, above consensus and up 20% sequentially. Finally, we generated record Q1 operating cash flow of $582 million. As our first quarter results illustrate the growth trajectory we established in fiscal 2021 is extending into fiscal 2022. We continue to see deployments accelerating with 5G cellular subscriptions predicted to grow from 700 million today to more than 4.4 billion by the year 2027. As connectivity becomes more vital to the ways we work, educate, and play, devices are increasingly integrating 5G with advanced WiFi, precision GPS, Bluetooth, Zigbee, and other wireless protocols, creating the seamless and ultrafast experience demanded by our customers. The rapid adoption of new wireless technologies enables a proliferating set of use cases with design wins spanning mobile and broad markets, further bolstered by contributions from our recently completed acquisition. Specifically in mobile, we shipped Sky5 platforms across leading smartphone OEMs, including Samsung, Oppo, Vivo, and Xiaomi, among others. In Enterprise and IoT, we supported WiFi access points at Siemens, powered NETGEAR's latest WiFi 6 and 6E mesh system, partnered with British Telecom to launch 5G home routers, ramped WiFi 6 and 6E modules at Juniper Networks and Telus, and provided digital isolation solutions for GE consumer appliances. Moving to automotive. We leverage Sky5 technology to enable telematics, security, driver assist, and other advanced services at leading OEMs. We scaled volume production of timing and isolation products enabling the leading EV manufacturers. And finally, across the infrastructure and industrial space, we captured design wins at Quectel for enterprise M2M platforms, delivered industrial IoT solutions to Itron, Honeywell, and Thales, supporting smart energy and factory automation. We also expanded our position in timing applications at the top five data centers. And as markets evolve, we expect to deploy billions of wireless devices, capitalizing on a strong multiyear growth trend. Advances in cloud and edge computing, autonomous vehicles and factory automation, together with the emergence of the Metaverse, we are intensifying the burden on existing networks, catalyzing demand for our highly integrated and customized platforms. From inception, Skyworks has been a driving force empowering the wireless network revolution, connecting people, places and things. We invested early and extensively to develop and fabricate cutting-edge technology at massive scale. Today, we're a global leader providing the essential elements required to deliver the highest performance connectivity platforms in the industry, producing billions of units integrating core technology nodes, including gallium arsenide, Belton surface acoustic wave, as well as the most advanced multi-chip module test and assembly capabilities in the world. Underpinned by this powerful foundation, we are leading the transition of 5G inspiring a new era of unrivaled innovation. The strength of our balance sheet and consistent outperformance demonstrates the significant value of our vertically integrated model and the compelling advantages it delivers. Looking forward, we are committed to supporting the strategic investments in technology, product development, and world-class manufacturing scale to further extend our market leadership. With that, I will turn the call over to Kris.Kris Sennesael -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Liam. Skyworks' revenue for the first fiscal quarter of 2022 was 1.51 billion, up 15% sequentially, driven by continued strong demand across our entire portfolio. Gross profit in the first quarter was 773 million, resulting in a gross margin of 51.2%, up 20 basis points sequentially. Operating expenses were 187 million or 12.4% of revenue, demonstrating leverage in our operating model while continuing our strategic investments in support of future growth. We generated 586 million of operating income translating into an operating margin of 38.8%, up 160 basis points sequentially. We incurred 9 million of other expenses, and our effective tax rate was 9.3%, driving net income of 543 million. So strong revenue growth and execution on margins brought diluted earnings per share of $3.14, up 20% sequentially. Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. First fiscal quarter cash flow from operations was a Q1 record of 582 million. Capital expenditures were 96 million, resulting in an all-time record free cash flow of 486 million and a free cash flow margin of 32%, driven by strong profitability and great working capital management. In fact, inventory levels were reduced by 22 days to 103 days, and receivables were reduced by five days to 47 days. In terms of capital allocation during the quarter, we paid 93 million in dividends and repaid 50 million of our term loan, and we repurchased 1.7 million shares of our common stock for a total of 269 million. In summary, the Skyworks team continues to execute well, delivering strong profitability, and rapid free cash flow in the December quarter with design wins across our growing product portfolio and customer set, positioning us to outperform through 2022. Now let's move on to our outlook for Q2 of fiscal '22. We expect to deliver double-digit year-over-year revenue and earnings-per-share growth in the March quarter. Specifically, we anticipate revenue between 1.3 billion and 1.36 billion. At the midpoint of 1.33 billion, revenue for the quarter is expected to increase 13.5% year over year. Gross margin is projected to be in the range of 50.75% to 51.25%. We expect operating expenses of approximately 186 to 188 million. Below the line, we anticipate roughly 10 million in other expense and a tax rate of approximately 9.5%. We expect our diluted share count to be approximately 166 million shares. Accordingly, at the midpoint of the revenue range, we intend to deliver diluted earnings per share of $2.62, an increase of 11% over Q2 of last year. And finally, given our strong cash flow and confidence in the business model, we will continue to focus on investing in our business while returning cash to the shareholders through both share repurchases and dividends. And with that, I'll turn the call back over to Liam.Liam Griffin -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Kris. Despite macro challenges in supply chain specific headwinds, Skyworks delivered excellent first quarter results, underscoring the increasingly diverse composition of our customer base and extending our track record of strong profitability and robust free cash flow generation. This strong performance and outlook reflect our critical position within the wireless ecosystem and how complexity favors Skyworks with its vast IP, deep customer relationships, differentiated manufacturing capabilities, and market-leading solutions. The momentum established in Q1 positions Skyworks for another year of record revenue and earnings. That concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, let's open the lines for questions. 