  OperatorThank you for standing by, and welcome to the Realty Income second-quarter 2021 operating results conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the call over to Julie Hasselwander, investor relations at Realty Income.Julie Hasselwander -- Investor Relations Thank you all for joining us today for Realty Income's second-quarter operating results conference call. Discussing our results will be Sumit Roy, president and chief executive officer; and Christie Kelly, executive vice president, chief financial officer, and treasurer. During this conference call, we will make certain statements that may be considered forward-looking statements under federal securities law. The company's actual future results may differ significantly from the matters discussed in any forward-looking statements.

 



 We will disclose in greater detail the factors that may cause such differences in the company's Form 10-Q. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the call over to our CEO, Sumit Roy.Sumit Roy -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Julie. Welcome, everyone. Building enduring relationships is inherent to our purpose as an organization, and I would like to thank all of our stakeholders for their continued support. I would like to express my appreciation to all of my Realty Income colleagues who continue to relentlessly pursue our growth initiatives while in this sustained remote work environment. We are pleased with the momentum across all facets of our business, which is reflected in our revised 2021 AFFO per-share guidance of $3.53 and $3.59. Our increased guidance range represents an improvement of 2.7% at the midpoint compared to our prior range, as well as an improvement of 5% at the midpoint versus last year, and is a function of several tailwinds to our business. First, an increase to our 2021 acquisition volume guidance to approximately $4.5 billion; second, the continued improvement in rent collections from our theater clients; third, our well-priced capital markets activity since the start of June, which further positioned our balance sheet for continued growth; fourth, our active asset management activities, which resulted in occupancy of 98.5% at quarter end, and rent recapture rates in excess of 104% on lease expirations during the quarter; fifth, the overall quality of our portfolio, which has been curated, refined and underwritten over our 52-year history continues to perform throughout a variety of environments. We'll discuss each of these elements in greater detail shortly. Year to date, we have added approximately $2.2 billion of high-quality real estate to our portfolio, including $1.1 billion of new acquisitions in the second quarter.

 



 We continue to expand our platform as our size and scale remain key competitive advantages that translate directly into shareholder value. This quarter, we sourced more than $20 billion of acquisition opportunities, ultimately selecting and closing on less than 6%. On a total revenue basis, approximately 54% of the acquisitions made during the quarter are leased to investment-grade rated clients, which brings our total investment-grade client exposure to approximately 50%. The weighted average remaining lease term of the assets added to our portfolio during the quarter was 11.5 years. The largest industry represented in our second-quarter acquisitions was U.K. grocery stores, and 7-Eleven remains our largest client. We remain well diversified as our portfolio consists of over 6,700 assets leased to approximately 630 clients who operate in 58 separate industries located in all 50 U.S. states, Puerto Rico, and the U.K. And during the quarter, we continued to generate healthy investment spreads of approximately 172 basis points while acquiring, in our view, the highest-quality product in the marketplace. The quality of our acquisitions is evident throughout the entire life cycle of our portfolio as we have consistently demonstrated favorable recapture rates on expiring leases while maintaining a healthy occupancy level throughout a variety of economic cycles. During the quarter, we released 58 units, recapturing 104.7% of expiring rent. Since our listing in 1994, we have executed over 3,700 releases or sales on expiring leases, recapturing over 100% of rent on these released contracts. And occupancy at quarter end was 98.5% based on property count. Our international investment activities continue to support our growth outlook, and our U.K. portfolio has now grown to over $2.7 billion. This quarter, the U.K.

 



 accounted for over 50% of the $1.1 billion of total acquisitions only. Year to date, we've added approximately $1 billion in high-quality real estate in the U.K. across 41 properties. And of the more than $21 billion in acquisitions opportunity that we sourced, approximately 31% is related to international markets. As we continue to expand our international platform, we will look for additional geographies that offer opportunities similar to that of the U.K. We seek to acquire real estate in markets where opportunities are abundant. There is considerable demand for sale-leaseback transactions from industry-leading operators, and the local real estate can generate long-term IRRs in excess of our long-term cost of capital. At this time, I'll pass it over to Christie, who will further discuss results from the quarter.Christie Kelly -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer Thank you, Sumit. We continue to prioritize a conservative balance sheet structure while procuring attractively priced capital. At quarter end, our net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio was 5.4 times or 5.3 times on a pro forma basis, adjusting for the annualized impact of acquisitions and dispositions during the quarter. I would note that these ratios are before our $9.2 million share offering, which closed subsequent to quarter end. Our fixed-charge coverage ratio hit an all-time high for the second quarter in a row, coming in at 6.0x, and during the quarter, we raised over $457 million of equity primarily through our ATM program. Subsequent to quarter end, we executed on two capital-raising activities to further enhance the strength of our balance sheet. In July, we raised approximately $594 million to an overnight equity offering. Proceeds were used to pay down short-term borrowings and support our active global investment pipeline. Additionally, in July, we issued our debut green bond, a GBP 750 million multi-tranche denominated unsecured bond offering of six years and 12-year notes, priced at a combined all-in rate of 1.48% and a weighted average term of approximately 8.8 years. We're proud to be the first net lease REIT to demonstrate our commitment to our ESG initiatives with a green bond. This green bond creates further partnership opportunities with our clients to implement sustainable practices at the properties within our portfolio, providing support for environmentally conscious initiatives while achieving mutual sustainability goals, and we estimate that over 40% of the proceeds have already been allocated to existing green projects. More information about our Green Financing Framework can be found on the corporate responsibility page of our website. This quarter, our business generated $0.88 of AFFO per share, and as Sumit mentioned, increasing greater rent collections are one of the drivers of our improved earnings outlook for 2021. In June, we collected approximately 51% of contractual theater rents, and in July, we collected 98.9% of our contractual theater rent. As a reminder, we own 79 total theater properties, which account for 5.4% of our annualized contractual rent. 42 of our theater assets are not on cash accounting, and we continue to recognize 100% of revenue on these assets on an accrual basis, consistent with our accounting treatment during the duration of the pandemic. The remaining 37 theater assets are currently on cash accounting, meaning we will not recognize any revenue associated with these clients until it has been received. These clients accounted for $34 million of annualized contractual rent or about $2.8 million of contractual rent per month. During the second quarter, we collected 38.3% of theater rent. The rent collections from June and July represented significant improvement from prior periods. Our theater clients paid us 14% of contractual rent in the first quarter and an average of 31% in April and May. Assuming the pace of collections we recognize that the theater industry in July continues on through the remainder of the year, we would not expect to accrue any additional theater reserves going forward. We believe the increased rent collections reflect significant positive momentum in the theater industry. One after another, the latest blockbusters continue to demonstrate a return to normalcy for the theater industry. In mid-July, opening weekend of Black Widow brought in approximately $158 million in revenue globally, earning the record for the biggest opening weekend since the pandemic. We are cautiously optimistic the momentum we're seeing will continue while closely monitoring the COVID-19 variants. As a monthly dividend company, our mission is to invest in people and places to deliver dependable monthly dividends that increase over time. In July, we declared our 613th consecutive monthly dividends, and we have now increased the dividend 111 times since our listing on the New York Stock Exchange in 1994. Since 1994, we have increased the dividend every year, growing dividends per share at a compound average annual growth rate of approximately 4.4%. And as a result, it's increasing the dividend every year for the last 25 consecutive years. We're proud to be a member of the exclusive S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index, which consists of only three REITs and 65 companies overall. Now I would like to hand our call back to Sumit.Sumit Roy -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Christie. Before we open up the line for questions, I did want to provide a brief update on our pending merger with VEREIT. Our special shareholder meeting to approve the merger is scheduled for August 12, and we remain focused on the fourth-quarter closing, subject to the satisfaction of all closing conditions. As I hope you can all appreciate, we are limited in any incremental information we can provide related to the merger beyond what has already been publicly disclosed. In conclusion, we are energized and pleased with the momentum across all areas of our business, which is reflected in our updated earnings guidance and increased growth projections for the year. As we have proven, with greater size comes enhanced prospects for growth, and we look forward to continuing to execute on these initiatives to ultimately deliver favorable full-cycle AFFO per-share growth with minimal volatility. At this time, I would like to open it up for questions. Operator? 