
OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to today's Marriott International's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this call may be recorded. And I will be standing by should you need any assistance.It is now my pleasure to turn today's program over to Jackie Burka, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.Jackie Burka McConagha -- Senior Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Marriott's third quarter 2021 earnings call. On the call with me are Tony Capuano, our Chief Executive Officer; Leeny Oberg, our Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Business Operations; and Betsy Dahm, our Vice President of Investor Relations. We are very happy to, not only be doing this call altogether in-person this morning, but to be doing it from the road at the beautiful JW Marriott Orlando Bonnet Creek.I will remind everyone that many of our comments today are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements under federal securities laws. These statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties as described in our SEC filings, which could cause future results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by our comments. Statements in our comments and the press release we issued earlier today are effective only today and will not be updated as actual events unfold.Please also note that, unless otherwise stated, our RevPAR, occupancy and average daily rate comments reflect system wide constant currency results for comparable hotels and include hotels temporarily closed due to COVID-19. RevPAR, occupancy and ADR comparisons between 2021 and 2019, reflect properties that are defined as comparable as of September 30, 2021, even if they were not open and operating for the full-year 2019, or they did not meet all the other criteria for comparable in 2019. You can find our earnings release and reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures referred to in our remarks today on our Investor Relations website.And now, I will turn the call over to Tony.Anthony Capuano -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Jackie, and good morning, everyone. Over the past few months, I've been fortunate to have spent the majority of my time back on the road. I've been speaking with our associates, meeting with customers, attending industry conferences and engaging with our owners and franchisees as I've been doing this week here in Orlando. My travels have taken me to Europe, the Caribbean and Latin America and many parts of the country here in the US. It's been wonderful to see so many people traveling again and to witness firsthand the resilience of global traffic. This resilience was clearly evident during the third quarter.The strong global RevPAR recovery momentum we experienced in the spring continued into the summer, thanks to sustained robust leisure demand, and impressive average daily rates. July worldwide RevPAR reached a new peak since the beginning of the pandemic, down just 23% compared to 2019 levels. Occupancy in July rose to 61%, an increase of over 500 basis points from June, while ADR was down less than 3% versus July of 2019. In August, global demand softened a bit, primarily as a result of the impact of the Delta variant and the subsequent delay in many companies return to the office. However, demand stabilized in September before rising once again in October.Recovery trajectories remain varied by region and have been on -- RevPAR in all of our regions except for Greater China improved in the third quarter compared to the second quarter. The recovery in Greater China has been choppier given its zero COVID-19 policy. Mainland China was the first market to see RevPAR returned to pre-pandemic levels a quarter ago and RevPAR rose again in July to 11% above July of 2019, but demand then fell significantly in August after the government imposed strict lockdowns in response to small regional COVID outbreaks, leading to a meaningful decline in RevPAR for the month. Demand then swiftly rose again in September as soon as those restrictions were lifted.In the US and Canada, third quarter RevPAR performance improved meaningfully to down less than 20% compared to the same quarter 2019. Results were driven by elevated leisure demand and ADR nearly at 2019 levels. Total occupancy reached 67% in July, retrenched a bit in August and held steady in September before rising again in October. Third quarter RevPAR in the US and Canada improved across all brand tiers and all market segments, primary, secondary and tertiary. While primary markets are still the most challenged, these markets saw the largest RevPAR gains during the quarter as demand in gateway cities like New York continued to rise.Group demand accelerated nicely in the US and Canada in the quarter. Group room revenues for the quarter were down 46% versus the third quarter of 2019, a significant improvement compared to the second quarter's decline of 76% versus the same time period in 2019. Group bookings have also been increasing. In the year, for the year, US managed Group bookings beat 2019 levels for each of the last five months through October, as event booking windows have shortened during the pandemic. Most importantly, Group ADRs continue to rise and for full-year 2022 is currently pacing nearly 4% above pre-pandemic levels.In the US and Canada, special corporate was the segment most impacted by the Delta variant during the quarter, given the delay in return to office timelines. As a reminder, the special corporate segment represents business transient customers who booked at pre-negotiated rates. We estimate this segment has been accounting for roughly half of business transient room nights, although we can't know with certainty the trip purpose for transient bookings other than special corporate. The special corporate segment, therefore, gives us the best indication of business demand trends. Special corporate bookings showed steady recovery each month this year until we saw a slight pullback in the back half of the third quarter. The gradual upward trajectory returned in October with bookings versus 2019 growing each week during the month. Special corporate bookings are currently down less than 40% compared to the same timeframe in 2019.From conversations with our corporate customers, we know that many of them, especially those with more client-facing jobs, are increasingly eager to get back on the road. We expect a recovery in business transient to gradually continue as more workers return to the office, guest visitation policies are relaxed and greater numbers of employees are permitted to travel again. We also expect the traditional business trip to continue to evolve with a blurring of the lines between business and leisure travel.In the Middle East and Africa, third quarter RevPAR came in less than 20% below pre-pandemic levels, led by strong performance in the UAE, and Qatar. RevPAR topped third quarter 2019 levels in Qatar, thanks to preparations for the 2022 World Cup, while RevPAR in the UAE was nearly even with 2019, largely benefiting from staycations. Europe's recovery took another large step forward in the quarter. Occupancy doubled in one quarter to reach 47% as many key international borders reopened, entry restrictions eased and almost all hotels were once again open. The Caribbean and Latin America posted third quarter RevPAR of 18% below 2019 levels. Demand for our resort properties remained robust, particularly in the Caribbean and Mexico. Urban destinations, while slowly improving, still lagged. Historically, the third quarter is the region's softest quarter seasonally, yet many resort saw record occupancy and ADRs, and our luxury ADR in the region for the quarter was ahead of 2019 levels by 32%. The recovery in Asia-Pacific, excluding China, advanced more slowly in the third quarter. Results were mixed across countries, though, India saw a meaningful improvement in demand as COVID caseloads dropped and restrictions lifted. Encouragingly, many countries in the region have recently taken significant steps to reopen travel, such as announcing new vaccinated travel lanes, demand in October accelerated nicely as a result.Developer sentiment continues to improve in step with the global recovery and the pace of signings has picked up meaningfully this year. At the end of September, our pipeline stood at nearly 477,000 rooms. Gross room openings through the third quarter of this year exceeded the first nine months of 2019 by 25% and surpassed the same period last year by almost 50%. And deletions from the pipeline remain at the low end of our long-term trend.Conversions remain a meaningful driver of rooms growth, given our impressive roster of conversion-friendly brands and the meaningful top and bottom line benefits associated with being part of the Marriott system. We've already added more conversion rooms in the first nine months of this year than we did in all of 2019. Accounting for over 30% of all signings in the first nine months of this year compared to around 15% of signings pre-pandemic, conversions are expected to be a significant contributor to growth over the next several years. For the full-year, we still expect that gross rooms growth will accelerate to around 6%. With more clarity around our estimated full-year deletions, we now expect 2021 net rooms growth will be approximately 3.5%. The attractiveness of our brands are increasing development activity, our momentum around conversions and our industry-leading pipeline give us confidence that we will see meaningful rooms growth going forward.We expected over the next several years we will get back to our typical mid-single-digit net rooms growth that we demonstrated prior to the pandemic. However, the exact timing is hard to predict and will depend on a host of factors related to the global recovery, including the lending environment and evolving supply chain dynamics. Supply chain issues have pushed some openings and construction starts out a few months but the deals continue to move forward.Turning to Marriott Bonvoy, global enrollments driven by digital sign-ups accelerated during the quarter, growing the program to 157 million members as of the end of September. We remain extremely focused on fostering engagement with our members. We recently rolled out numerous successful special promotions, such as our second annual Week of Wonders and the relaunch of Marriott Bonvoy Moments, where members can use points to gain VIP access to a broad variety of experiences. Additionally, we just announced several loyalty program updates, including status, award and point extensions, which should further encourage members to stay with us as global travel rebounds. Since the start of the pandemic, we've grown our share of bookings coming through our digital and other direct channels. Over 76% of our global room nights in the first three quarters of the year were booked through our direct channels, with around half of these booked through our digital channels.In closing, I firmly believe that the long-term recovery is on track. The resilience of travel and consumers' desire to visit our 7,900 global properties is undeniable and I'm looking ahead with a lot of optimism about our future.At this point, I'd like to turn the call over to Leeny. Leeny?Leeny Oberg -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Tony. We're pleased with our third quarter results, which reflect the continued meaningful improvement in the global recovery. Third quarter worldwide RevPAR was down 26% compared to the same quarter in 2019, despite the impact of the Delta variant in the latter half of the quarter. In comparison, global RevPAR declined 44% in the second quarter versus the same period in 2019. Worldwide occupancy rose to 58% in the third quarter and ADR was only 4% below the third quarter of 2019. We've been very pleased to see rate almost back at pre-pandemic levels in just 20 months. In comparison, global ADR have lagged the recovery in RevPAR in prior downturns, taking around five years to rebound after the 2009 recession and around four years to recover post 9/11. Importantly, the recovery in rate has not just been driven by customer mix. Our third quarter retail or RAC rate in the US and Canada was essentially flat with the third quarter of 2019.Gross fee revenue reached $776 million in the third quarter. Our non-RevPAR-related franchise fees were again particularly strong, totaling $173 million in the third quarter, 19% ahead of 2019 levels. Credit card branding fees of $113 million were up 11% compared to the 2019 third quarter on the back of strong new account acquisitions and robust global card spending. Our residential branding fees also had another outstanding quarter, totaling $18 million. Incentive management fees, or IMFs, totaled $53 million in the quarter, over 40% of IMFs were earned at resort properties with IMFs from our luxury resorts around the world up almost 30% compared to the third quarter of 2019. We were pleased to see positive results from our owned and leased portfolio in the quarter, primarily due to improved performance at hotels in the US and Europe.Third quarter G&A and other expense totaled $212 million and were impacted by compensation true-ups and additional legal expenses. We continue to realize meaningful savings from the significant restructuring activities undertaken last year and we still expect full-year G&A and other to be roughly $800 million, down 15% to 2019 levels. We also recorded a $164 million pre-tax loss on extinguishment of debt during the quarter associated with the repurchase of $1 billion of our 5.75% senior notes due in May 2025.As part of our balance sheet management, we are focused on bringing down our average interest rate, lengthening our average debt maturities, and reducing our debt balances. Over the last 18 months, we have reduced our outstanding net debt by $1.4 billion. At the hotel level, we have significantly improved margins and lowered breakeven occupancy levels around the world. In the third quarter, even with RevPAR for managed properties in the US and Canada down 27% versus pre-pandemic levels, 97% of our managed hotels in the region had positive GOP, or gross operating profit.We're proud of the work our teams have done in maximizing margins during the pandemic. We expect many of the cost reduction and productivity enhancement initiatives we have implemented will be maintained as occupancies continued to rise. Given the current labor environment, we are keeping a close eye on wage and benefit inflation as associates are hired back and open positions are filled. But our cost reduction efforts could offset this inflation in future years.As demand continues to rise, we're working closely with our owners and franchisees to maximize hotel profitability while delivering the outstanding guest experiences our customers expect from our brands. We're close to completing an extensive review of our brand standards and are already implementing numerous changes intended to help reduce hotel operating expenses while improving flexibility based on customer needs as occupancies rise.Looking ahead, we are still not in a position to be able to give specific RevPAR or earnings guidance, but I would like to share some general observations and provide color on certain additional items where we do have some visibility. We're optimistic about the pace of global recovery as we look ahead into next year as more markets reopen around the world. With meaningful continued improvement in business transient and Group demand, continued growth in leisure demand and healthy levels of ADR, we expect to make substantial progress in closing the gap to 2019 RevPAR levels by the end of next year, assuming no major setbacks in the pandemic recovery. To further help your modeling for 2021, as a reminder, the fourth and the first quarters of the year historically have seen lower demand than the second and third quarters. In 2019, global occupancy fell around 6 percentage points from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.Turning to fees, at current RevPAR levels, we still expect the sensitivity of a 1 point change in full-year 2021 RevPAR versus 2019 could be $35 million to $40 million of fees. As we have seen, the relationship is not linear given the variabilities of IMFs and the inclusion of non-RevPAR-related franchise fees. We expect our non-RevPAR-related fees to continue to benefit from strong credit card and residential branding fees.Interest expense is now anticipated to be around $420 million. Full-year cash taxes are now expected to be $350 million to $375 million. Our anticipated full-year cash flow from the loyalty program has not changed from our expectation a quarter ago. We still expect it to be positive for the full-year before factoring in the reduced payments we will receive from the credit card companies. After factoring in these reduced payments, which are expected to effectively repay around one-third of the total $920 million we received in 2020, we continue to anticipate modestly negative cash flows from loyalty. We remain focused on carefully watching capital expenditures and we now expect full-year investment spending of $525 million to $550 million, below our expectation of $575 million to $625 million that we shared last quarter.Total investment spending includes capital and technology expenditures, loan advances, contract acquisition costs, and other investing activities. As we think about capital allocation, retaining our investment-grade credit rating remains a top priority. We're making excellent progress bringing our credit ratios back in line as we continue to generate positive cash flow and manage our spending levels. Assuming this progress continues, we could be in a position to restart capital returns in the back half of 2022.We're very enthusiastic about how our business is performing and we're happy now to take your questions. Operator?