
OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the Seagate Technology Fiscal Third Quarter 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Gabriel, and I will be your coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Shanye Hudson, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasury. Please proceed, Shanye.Shanye Hudson -- Senior Vice President-Investor Relations and Treasury

 



Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's call. Joining me are Dave Mosley, Seagate's Chief Executive Officer; and Gianluca Romano, our Chief Financial Officer. We posted our earnings press release and detailed supplemental information for our March quarter on the Investors section of our website.During today's call, we will refer to GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP figures are reconciled to GAAP figures in the earnings press release posted on our website and Form 8-K that was filed with the SEC. We have not reconciled certain non-GAAP outlook measures because material items that may impact these measures are out of our control and/or cannot be reasonably predicted. Therefore, reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP measures is not available without unreasonable effort.As a reminder, this call contains forward-looking statements, including our June quarter financial outlook and expectations about our financial performance, market demand, industry growth trends, planned product introductions, ability to ramp production, future growth opportunities, possible effects of the economic conditions worldwide resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and general market conditions. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions and information available to us as of today, which should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. Actual results may vary materially from today's statements.Information concerning our risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ from these forward-looking statements are contained in our most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC, our Form 8-K filed with the SEC today and the supplemental information posted on the Investors section of our website. As always, following our prepared remarks, we will open the call for questions.I will now turn the call over to you, Dave.

 



Dave Mosley -- Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThanks you, Shanye. Welcome, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. Seagate delivered an outstanding March quarter, executing well across multiple dimensions. We grew revenue quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year. We expanded non-GAAP operating margin into the recently increased target range, and we achieved non-GAAP EPS above the high end of our guidance range. We also continue to drive forward on our commitments of enhancing value for our shareholders, returning the combined $912 million during the March quarter through dividends and share repurchases.Fiscal year-to-date, we have repurchased approximately 12% of our common shares outstanding, the statement that demonstrates our confidence in Seagate's long-term business prospects. Gianluca will share more details on the financials shortly. For the remainder of my remarks, I'll focus on the business trends that we see unfolding this year, and how Seagate is well-positioned from a product and technology perspective, to unlock more value for our customers. Strong cloud data center demand and ongoing recovery in the enterprise markets drove our highest ever HDD sentiments of 140 exabytes, a record mass capacity revenue of more than $1.6 billion. These trends underscore the strong secular demand dynamics we are seeing in the mass capacity markets, and support our outlook for the TAM to more than double by 2026 to roughly $26 billion. While customers are helping drive this market expansion by investing in scale and infrastructure to support the acceleration in digital transformation in businesses worldwide, as well as growing demand for AI and data analytics.Seagate's high capacity nearline drives are a vital component of these infrastructure investments, and we believe that our strong technology roadmap and focus around delivering the best total customer experience is helping drive broad adoption by the global cloud ecosystem. These factors were the driving force behind a number of new strategic partnerships and agreements formed last quarter with several of the world's leading cloud providers. These multiyear collaborations are focused on delivering innovative and reliable mass capacity storage at exabyte scale. In the enterprise markets, we are seeing a continuation of the recovery trends that we discussed last quarter, as businesses increased investments in traditional on-prem IT hardware. Recent CIO surveys highlight increased 2021 budget growth expectations to support their post-pandemic application and infrastructure needs. We realize strong double-digit sequential revenue growth for both our enterprise nearlines and mission-critical products in the March quarter, and currently anticipate healthy demand through the calendar year.

 



The record demand that I cited in the nearline markets more than offset anticipated seasonal declines for video and image applications. We see VIA market demand improving in the June quarter and sustaining through the calendar year, as planned smart city projects are slated to begin in the coming months. Video analytics extends well beyond public safety. As I discussed at our recent analyst event, there is a growing list of edge applications that leverage video image sensors in areas such as retail, manufacturing and healthcare to drive valuable data insights. These applications support our longer-term exabyte and revenue growth projections. Seagate is well-positioned to benefit from these trends, as we continue to lead the VIA market at all nature capacity points driven by product aerial density competitiveness and strong customer engagement.Finally, looking quickly at the legacy markets, higher enterprise mission-critical sales and relatively stable desktop PC demand led to better-than-anticipated revenue in the March quarter, despite this period's typical seasonal slowdown. With a broader industry shift to mass capacity storage forming the foundation of our future revenue growth outlook, we have built a strong technology roadmap, streamlined product portfolio, and are growing a pipeline of solutions and services that make us ideally suited to address big data demand now and well into the future. Average capacity per drive increased 17% sequentially to pass the 5 terabyte mark, a milestone that reflects the growth in mass capacity storage and demand for Seagate's high capacity nearline drives. Today, Seagate is servicing the vast majority of market demand for 16-terabyte and higher capacity drives. We've started to aggressively ramp 18-terabyte volume, and current demand suggests strong sequential growth through at least the calendar year.We're also rapidly gaining traction with our industry-leading MACH.2 dual actuator technology. MACH.2 has been proven to address TCO and performance requirements for certain applications with heavy data traffic, such as content streaming. We've recently begun the high volume ramp of MACH.2 drives with a leading hyperscale customer and plan to expand shipments to additional customers later in the calendar year. And that brings me to HAMR. We believe HAMR is the technology to achieve drive capacities of 30 terabytes and beyond. Today customers are testing 20-terabyte HAMR drives in their production environments, which offers valuable feedback that we are factoring into our product roadmaps. I would highlight that through our innovation capabilities and our common platform approach, we have the flexibility to offer multiple versions of 20-terabyte drives to meet customer needs, not only with HAMR technology. We are focused on delivering solutions to customers that meet their roadmaps and lower their TCO and do so in a way that also drives value for Seagate. To that end, we plan to begin shipping a few versions of 20-terabyte drives in the second half of the calendar year.This quarter, we introduced new key components of our Lyve edge to cloud platform. We launched Lyve Data Transfer, enabling data movement on demand between the edge and the cloud. Lyve Data Transfer works seamlessly with Lyve Cloud, an object-based storage-as-a-service solution delivered in collaboration with Equinix and strategically located at the metro edge. In a recent survey conducted by IDC, a majority of respondents considered it increasingly important to colocate data, adjacent to applications or cloud services. We are progressing our build-out plans and are on track to have four Lyve Cloud sites up by the end of the calendar year. We are getting an ecosystem support and have now been certified with each of the leading backup software vendors. We're very excited about the future potential for Lyve products and services, which open a large and growing market opportunity for Seagate estimated to reach about $50 billion by 2025. However, I do want to reiterate that we are still in the early innings. We're being deliberate in how we build out the platform and capabilities to position Seagate for long-term success. We are listening closely to customers to make sure we're designing and evolving our services to best serve their needs, particularly as the distributed enterprise itself evolves in the growing data sphere.In the March quarter, we hit a milestone that took four decades to achieve. Seagate has now shipped a cumulative 3 zettabytes of HDD capacity, shipping over 3.3 billion disk drives. For perspective, at the 140-exabyte rate we shipped in the March quarter, we would ship our next 3 zettabytes in about five years. That is an amazing commentary on the exploding global data sphere we live in today. And I think Seagate's in an outstanding position to drive great future value for our stakeholders.I'll now hand the call over to Gianluca to cover details of our financial results.Gianluca Romano -- Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice PresidentThank you, Dave. Seagate continued to execute exceptionally well as demonstrated by our strong March quarter performance. We delivered revenue $2.73 billion, up 4% sequentially and above our guidance midpoint. We achieved non-GAAP gross margin of 27.4%, up 60 basis points sequentially, and we expanded non-GAAP operating margin to 15.4%, in spite the recently increased long-term target range of 15% to 20% of revenue.Strong demand for our mass capacity products supported record hard disk drive capacity shipment of 140 exabytes, up 8% sequentially and 16% year-on-year. Nearly 80% of our total exabytes were shipped into the mass capacity markets, which include nearline, data and image application or DIA and NAS products. Mass capacity shipments increased to a record 111 exabytes in the March quarter, up 21% compared with March 2020, which was our prior shipment record. Based on our current outlook, exabyte shipment growth should continue through the calendar year, consistent with our long-term CAGR forecast of about 35%. Ongoing demand for our high capacity nearline drives led to record mass capacity revenue of $1.6 billion, up 8% sequentially and up 5% compared with the prior year period. Mass capacity represented about 65% of total HDD revenue. Nearline revenue increased sharply quarter-over-quarter, driven by strong recovery from enterprise and OEM customers, as well as healthy growth from cloud. Nearline shipments were 95 exabytes, up 34% sequentially and 25% year-on-year. Average capacity for nearline drives increased 12 terabytes, driven by the strength of our high capacity drives. 16 terabytes and higher capacity contributed approximately 50% of our total March quarter exabyte shipments. Demand trends in the VIA market are playing out much as we expected due to [Phonetic] seasonality. Revenue declined sequentially in the March quarter from the record demand we saw in the December quarter. We are already seeing demand improve as some of the smart city projects that Dave mentioned take shape. We support our outlook for stronger VIA sales in the June quarter and into the second half of the calendar year.The legacy market made up 35% of March quarter HDD revenue. This market held up well in the seasonally slower period with revenue of $864 million, down 5% sequentially and 11% year-over-year. Improving demand for mission critical drives and stronger than anticipated demand for desktop PC partially offset anticipated decline in consumer drives. We shipped a total of 29 exabytes into the legacy market, down 9% on our sequential basis, offsetting [Phonetic] the lower mix of consumer drives. Looking ahead to the next few quarters, we expect the pace of year-on-year revenue decline to moderate, support relatively stable demand for mission critical and consumer drives. Revenue from our non-HDD business increased 20% sequentially to $238 million or 9% of March quarter revenue. The strong growth was driven by our system business, as we began to ramp revenue from our customer wins in the December quarter. We expect growth momentum to continue in our non-HDD business in the June quarter. In the March quarter, non-GAAP gross profits increased to $749 million compared with $704 million in the December quarter and included $24 million of COVID-related cost. We are currently planning to incur similar level of COVID-related cost throughout this calendar year, mainly driven by higher freight charges.Our resulting non-GAAP gross margin was 27.4%, including about 1% impact from these COVID-related costs. HDD margin expanded quarter-over-quarter driven by favorable mix, offsetting the sequential growth of our non-HDD business which carries lower gross margin profile. To-date, our mass capacity gross margin is already at the low-end of our target range of 30% to 33% that we outlined at our recent analyst event. We are on track for total Company gross margin to be at the low-end of our new long-term range by the end of fiscal '22, supported by the ongoing shift to mass capacity products, higher revenue contribution from cost optimized 2 terabyte disk drives, which make up less than 20% of revenue today, a gradual reduction in COVID-related cost and our continued focus on aligning supply with demand.Non-GAAP operating expenses came in at $329 million, up $10 million sequentially. The increase reflects higher variable compensation, associated with strong performance and increased R&D material expenses to support new product development. Comparing with the same quarter last year, opex was down $11 million, by supporting a slightly higher revenue level, demonstrating operational leverage and disciplined expense management. Looking ahead, we expect operating expenses to be a bit higher in the June quarter as we gradually resume normal on-site business activities and travel. Our resulting non-GAAP operating income was $420 million and non-GAAP operating margin was 15.4% of revenue, up 70 basis points sequentially and inside our recently increased long-term target range of 15% to 20% of revenue.Based on the diluted share count of approximately 237 million shares, non-GAAP EPS for the March quarter was $1.48, up 15% sequentially and exceeded the high-end of our guided range. The $0.18 outperformance relative to our guidance midpoint was driven mainly by higher revenue and operational leverage, while our share repurchase activities enhanced EPS by $0.04. Capital expenditures were $104 million in the March quarter, which represented approximately 4% of revenue and in line with our expectation for capex to be inside our long-term range of between 4% and 6% of revenue for the fiscal year. We will continue to focus on capital discipline to better align supply with demand through platform simplification and manufacturing efficiency improvements. We had inventory relatively flat at $1.3 billion, consistent with our strong mass capacity product demand outlook. Given the broader market dynamics and well-publicized component shortages, we're continuing to carry higher level of strategic inventory to protect against potential future supply chain risks as well as toward managed state logistics. We believe these actions enable us to support customer demand, and we continue to monitor current market conditions.Days inventory outstanding reduced by 3 days sequentially to 59 days. We generated $274 million of free cash flow in the March quarter compared $314 million in the December quarter and $260 million in the year ago period. In the March quarter, we used $161 million to fund the dividend and $751 million to retire 11.3 million ordinary share, exiting the quarter with 230 million shares outstanding. The investment in Seagate shares underscores our confidence in the long-term business strategy and future cash generation ability. As a reminder, during the quarter, the Board authorized an increase of $2 billion to our existing share repurchase authorization. As of the end of the quarter, we had a $4.4 billion remaining in our authorization, subject to availability of distributable reserves. As we communicated at our recent analyst event, we expect to return more than 100% of free cash flow to shareholders in fiscal 2022. We will do this while maintaining a strong balance sheet and liquidity profile. Cash and cash equivalents were $1.2 billion, and total liquidity was approximately $3 billion, including our revolving credit facility. These levels are more than adequate to support our operation and business mix.Looking ahead to our outlook for the June quarter. We expect revenue to be in the range of $2.85 million, plus or minus $150 million, supported by continued strength from cloud data center and enterprise customers along with increasing demand from VIA market. We expect non-GAAP operating margin to be at the lower end of our new long-term target range of 15% to 20% of revenue. And we expect non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $1.60, plus or minus $0.15, representing a sequential growth of 8% at midpoint. At the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance range, fiscal '21 revenue would be $10.5 billion, flat year-on-year and aligns to the goal we set at the start of the fiscal year.In closing, we continue to deliver on our financial commitment and remain on track to achieve the fiscal 2021 goals we have set, while also demonstrating a clear path to meet the long-term objectives outlined at our analyst event.I will now turn the call back to Dave for final comments.Dave Mosley -- Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThanks, Gianluca. In summary, we had a great quarter. Our growing mass capacity markets are showing strong demand and enterprise spending is in recovery. We're executing on our technology and product roadmaps, and seeing positive customer engagement with our newest mass capacity offerings. We currently expect annual revenue growth of at least 10% in calendar year 2021, as the shift toward the less seasonal mass capacity markets supports a more stable revenue outlook through the year.We're also making deliberate steps to build out our Lyve platform, particularly Lyve Cloud and are excited by the early reaction from customers. All of this wins confidence to our positive outlook for the Company. And that confidence is illustrated by our active return of capital to our shareholders. In recognition of Earth Day, it is fitting the highlight that we published our 15th global citizenship annual report this week. We are proud of our long-standing commitment to build sustainable supply chains and products to conserve the world's precious resources.In the most recent reporting period, we increased water recycling by nearly 9% and recycled the equivalent of 1,100 Olympic sized swimming pools. We reduced our production energy consumption by about 19% on a per exabyte basis. And we are executing plans to reduce our carbon footprint by 20% by 2025 and 60% by 2040, in accordance with science-based targets. Consistent with our core value of integrity, we will continue striving to balance our business decisions around people, our planet, and profitability. Prior to closing, I'd like to thank our employees for their extraordinary efforts, as well as our customers, suppliers and shareholders for their ongoing trust and support in Seagate.With that, Gianluca and I are now happy to take your questions.