  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the fourth quarter 2021 General Electric Company earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] My name is Brandon, and I'll be your conference coordinator today. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Steve Winoker, vice president of investor relations. Please proceed.Steve Winoker -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Brandon. Welcome to GE's fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. I'm joined by chairman and CEO, Larry Culp, and CFO, Carolina Dybeck Happe. Keep in mind that some of the statements we're making are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. As described in our SEC filings and on our website, those elements may change as the world changes. Note that we plan to hold an investor event on March 10 in Greenville, South Carolina at our Power and Aviation plants to provide more in our 2022 outlook, with an up close look at our lean progress and innovation. We're covering a lot of ground today with the quarter, the year, our reporting changes, and outlook. So we will run a little long.Appreciate your patience and we'll still make time at the end for Q&A. One quick note, I've been getting a number of questions this morning on the changes we're making and the relevance to consensus. Consensus is not comparable to our current numbers given the changes we're about to walk through, most notably Insurance, which was about $0.40 in '21. So with that, I'll hand the call over to Larry. Larry Culp -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve, thank you, and good morning, everyone. 2021 was an important year for GE. We successfully navigated a dynamic environment, delivering solid margin expansion, EPS growth, and free cash flow. We focused our portfolio, significantly reduced debt and strengthened our operating performance through lean and decentralization. We've remained on track to achieve our long-term financial goals, and we're confident about where we stand today and where we're headed. We entered 2022 with strength from this continued strategic operational and financial progress, thanks to the dedication and resilience of the entire GE team. We're seeing real opportunities for sustainable profitable growth from near-term improvements in our businesses, especially as aviation recovers and our end markets strengthen. With our transformation accelerating and significant momentum in our businesses, we're playing more offense through both organic and inorganic growth opportunities, such as our recent healthcare acquisitions. It's this momentum that allowed us to announce in November, one of the most important events in GE's history, creating three independent investment-grade industry leaders focused on critical global needs. We're supporting the recovery of the aviation industry today and creating a future of smarter, more sustainable and efficient flight. We're developing precision healthcare that personalizes diagnoses and treatments, and we're leading the energy transition to drive decarbonization. These are big challenges, and our customers deserve and demand our best work. At GE, we're committed to creating value for all of our stakeholders and delivering on our purpose of building a world that works. Turning to Slide 3. We materially strengthened our business in 2021, and our balance sheet is in solid shape. We took a large step in the fourth quarter with the close of the GECAS-AerCap transaction, focusing GE on our industrial core and creating an industry leader and strategic partner to airline customers. Using the proceeds, we reduced debt by $25 billion, and we're now able to transition to a simpler reporting structure. I'll address our 2021 performance versus our outlook on a prior basis for ease of comparison. Then we'll bridge these results to our simplified reporting, which we'll use going forward. Let me briefly address the fourth quarter and Carolina will provide further insights. We made good progress in the quarter. Two highlights of which were orders in Aviation and Healthcare, up 22% and 7%, respectively. But our top line results were pressured by two dynamics that we believe are temporary. First, persistent supply chain challenges. This was most acute in healthcare, although the impact was felt in all businesses. And we're confident in our countermeasures that are underway, including both price and cost actions across GE. Second, we continue to drive commercial selectivity across the board, with a particular focus in Power and Renewables. We're being more disciplined in the projects we choose to underwrite in the broader markets where we participate. This means lower volume with lower risk today but better margins and less risk over time. Increased selectivity and supply chain headwinds each impacted revenue performance by about three to four points. Our focus on profitability and cash generation was evident this quarter. Industrial margins expanded 290 basis points organically, led by Aviation and Power Services. And we delivered $3.8 billion of Industrial free cash flow. Now looking at the full year. Orders were up 12% organically, with services growth in all businesses and up 12% overall, supporting faster growth in 2022. Industrial revenue was down 2% organically. Increased selectivity and supply chain headwinds impacted performance by three to four points and one to two points, respectively. Total equipment revenue decreased 8% organically, while higher-margin services grew 4% organically, led by Power and Healthcare. We ended the year with strong profitability and cash performance as margins, EPS, and free cash flow all exceeded our full year outlook. Industrial margin expanded 390 basis points organically. Strong services growth, coupled with cost actions and restructuring benefits, drove improvements in three businesses, led by Aviation. This was offset by supply chain headwinds across the company, renewable energy performance, and rising inflationary pressures. Solid margin expansion helped drive adjusted EPS up significantly to $2.12. And we delivered Industrial free cash flow of $5.1 billion, driven by better earnings and disciplined working capital management. If you add back discontinued factoring, our business has generated $5.8 billion of free cash flow last year. Now I recognize there are several definitions this quarter as we transition to reporting that reflects a simpler GE. But let there be no doubt, $5.8 billion best represents our operating performance for the year. And this is the number from which we'll grow in 2022 and going forward. Now given the impact of renewables on our overall performance, I'd like to spend a moment talking through the business dynamics. Remember, we run this business by its parts: Offshore Wind, pre-revenue and growing; Grid Solutions, on its way to profitability; and while not a part of renewables results today, there's Grid Software, a profitable part of Digital within Corporate. Our largest business, though, is Onshore Wind, which is where I'll focus. First, demand will be there in Onshore Wind as a critical component of the energy transition. We have leading products and a strong services franchise, but we do face near-term challenges, some structural, but many within our control. In the U.S., we're the market leader and profitable. While internationally, we've experienced continued challenges that we're addressing related to new technology ramps. And we're managing through the U.S. production tax credit, or PTC, inflation and supply chain issues. So what are we doing? Scott Strazik is now leading our energy businesses, and he'll run the same operational playbook he did at Gas Power. We're being more selective. It's OK not to compete everywhere. And we're looking closer at the margins we underwrite on deals with some early evidence of increased margins on our 2021 orders. Our teams are also implementing price increases to help offset inflation and are laser focused on supply chain improvements and lower costs. We're making progress operationally. Turbine availability is increasing across the fleet. Our field teams are enhancing the customer experience with better design and testing and quicker responses to field issues. Core services was up double-digits in 2021, and we expect growth to continue. Using lean, the team lowered overall inventory by more than $300 million at year-end. We do have work to do, and we're on it. With Scott and Pat Byrne now full-time leading onshore at the helm, we believe this will be a growth business that delivers high single-digit margins over time. Overall, our performance at GE was strong in 2021, underpinned by rising demand in Aviation and Healthcare. Our bottom line focus is paying off and enabling us to reinvest in growth. This sets us up well to deliver high revenue growth, margin expansion and better free cash flow in the year ahead. Moving to Slide 4. GE today is operating from a position of strength. Lean principles are helping our teams increase their focus on customers, eliminating waste, and driving continuous improvement. This is leading to sustainable, impactful improvements in safety, quality, delivery and cost. One recent example is what our Gas Power team did to dramatically improve the 7F turbine outage experience for our North American customers. By standardizing crews, optimizing material flow, and digitizing frontline field procedures, the team reduced outage cycle time by 30%, ultimately decreasing customer downtime. Our teams are scaling their learnings to more regions. In this quarter, at PDx in Ireland, our team rearranged standard workflow and prep sequences in their main contrast media filling line, reducing turnaround time by 40%. This helps avoid unnecessary capital expenditures while significantly expanding our production capacity to reach more customers and ultimately more patients. These are just two of the many examples demonstrating the progress our businesses continue to make. Decentralization goes hand-in-hand with lean. We continue to drive decentralization at every turn, P&L by P&L. In each of our three go-forward companies, we'll carry that philosophy to drive better results. First and foremost, we're driving organic growth through innovation. In Healthcare, for example, we've been investing in one of the fastest-growing ultrasound subsegments, the handheld market. Portable ultrasound is expected to become standard of care over time as it enables quick insights from routine exams with greater mobile flexibility. We launched our Vscan Air, a pocket-sized wireless ultrasound last year. And it's already reaching patients in more than 70 countries, contributing to strong handheld ultrasound revenue growth in 2021. And at Gas Power this quarter, Guangdong Energy ordered two 9HA.01 gas turbines, which will be the first to burn hydrogen-blended with natural gas in Mainland China. We're also selectively complementing our organic growth with inorganic investments, becoming more active in the market as we've strengthened our financial position. Recently, GE Digital acquired Opus One, a company with advanced interoperable software and renewable energy planning capabilities that are highly complementary with Digital's network management and optimization portfolio. Together, we'll help customers integrate distributed energy resources at scale. This builds on other bolt-ons we've done lately such as BK Medical to expand our competitive capabilities. In addition to broadening momentum in our businesses, many of our end markets are improving. In Aviation, we're encouraged by our performance, which reflects our actions and a continued market recovery. While the current GE CFM departures are down 25% versus '19 levels, given recent volatility due to the Omicron variant, it wasn't a material impact in 2021. Shop visits once again were higher than we initially anticipated, and green time utilization continues to lessen. Along with our customers, GE remains confident in the recovery while actively monitoring the impact of travel restrictions. We're positioned to lead as the commercial aftermarket recovers and Military grows, supporting the industry today and sustainability for the long term. In Healthcare, order demand remained strong despite supply chain disruptions, which we expect to be with us through at least the first half of next year or 2022. We're encouraged that government and private health systems are investing in products and services to support future capacity and improve quality of care. We're also continuing to invest to meet rising demand from hospital providers while managing costs through operational improvements. The energy market remains dynamic. At Renewables, the PTC expired at year's end, and the uncertainty is impacting Onshore Wind demand. Based on Wood Mac's latest equipment and repower forecast, the U.S. market is expected to decline from 15 gigawatts of installations in '21 to approximately 10 gigawatts in 2022. We're monitoring policy proposals and see strong diverse interest in continuing tax credit for wind. In Offshore Wind, demand continues to significantly increase around the world. We have over seven gigawatts of Haliade-X commitments, spanning across Europe, North America and now Asia, including our recent 1.7 gigawatt commitment with our partner, Mitsubishi, in Japan. At gas, while global gas generation was down slightly for the year, GE gas turbine megawatt hours grew high single digits, supporting stronger services and cash generation. We anticipate the 21 equipment market will be above 30 gigawatts. Overall, gas continues to be a reliable and economic source of power generation, and we see gas generation demand growing low single digits over the next decade. Our Renewables and Power businesses, including Digital and Grid, are playing a critical role in solving the trilemma of affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy to meet increasing energy demand and support customers in achieving their net zero ambitions. GE operates in mission-critical markets, each with global reach, profitably growing backlogs and sizable installed bases. Aftermarket services, which make up roughly 80% of our more than $400 million backlog and more than half our revenue, keep us close to our customers on a daily basis. So I hope that you can see that we're running GE better, with a focus on driving innovation, sustainability and growth in '22 and longer term. With that, I'll turn it over to Carolina for further insights on our results. Carolina Dybeck Happe -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Larry. We're continuing to make GE a focused, simpler, and stronger high-tech industrial company. Closing the GECAS transaction was a significant milestone that helped us reduce gross debt by $87 billion since the end of 2018 and created an opportunity for us to make reporting changes to substantially simplify our financials and enhance transparency. This quarter, we moved from a three-column reporting format, which showed GE Industrial separately from our financial services operations to a simpler one-column format. This means we rolled the remainder of capital, including EFS and run-off insurance into Corporate. As we shared before, to provide a clearer view of our core performance, our results will exclude run-off insurance from adjusted revenue, profit, and free cash flow. Let me outline what this means. Looking at the EPS and cash flow bridges provided at the right-hand side, starting with adjusted EPS of $2.12 in the prior three-column format. Now ex run-off insurance, adjusted EPS is $1.71 in the one-column format. Looking at free cash flow, there were a couple more puts and takes. Starting with the prior three-column format or what we called industrial, adding back the cash impact of discontinued factoring gets us to $5.8 billion. Transitioning to the one-column format and the impact of legacy capital, which is largely interest expense and derivatives ex run-off insurance, and we arrived at $2.6 billion of free cash flow ex discontinued factoring. Importantly, we expect the $3.2 billion legacy impact on cash flow to be close to $0.5 billion in 2022. This is driven by the significant debt reduction, causing lower interest expense and lower derivatives impact. For ease of comparison, we've provided detailed walks, including quarterly financials on our IR website. Stepping back, after this transition quarter, our new simplified financials reflect the strategic actions we've taken to further focus on our industrial core. Turning to Slide 6. I'll speak to all figures on the one-column reporting format and an organic basis, unless otherwise noted. Starting with orders. This quarter, we saw strength in Aviation and Healthcare. We're growing more profitable areas like services, which was up 7%. Meanwhile, equipment was down, driven by large order timing at Renewables, including the PTC and Power. As we've mentioned, we're being more selective in the commercial deals we're pursuing. For the year, equipment and services orders were both up 12% organically, with services growing in all businesses. We're confident this builds revenue momentum heading into '22. While adjusted revenue was down this quarter, services was a bright spot, up double-digits, with growth in all businesses. We're managing through various market and operational dynamics, including supply chain challenges in all businesses, especially Healthcare as well as the continued impact of increased selectivity. Examples here include lower turnkey scope at Power, pursuing deals at the right margins and the exit of new build coal. For the year, these dynamics play through with equipment down and services up. This quarter, adjusted margins expanded 210 basis points, largely driven by Aviation Services. For the year, we achieved 400 basis points of margin expansion, driven by services growth, cost productivity, non-repeat of COVID contract charges and more than $1 billion of restructuring savings. At the macro level, inflation pressure continues. Finally, adjusted EPS was up significantly this quarter and for the year, primarily driven by margin expansion. In all, we're pleased with our orders, margins and earnings performance this year while we continue to drive profitable top line growth in the year ahead. Strengthening our cash generation through improved working capital management and linearity has been a major focus of our transformation. This will ultimately drive more consistent, sustainable and higher cash flow. Thanks to the focus and discipline of our team, we generated $3.7 billion of free cash flow this quarter, mainly driven by earnings and working capital. This was down $2.1 billion year over year ex discontinued factoring. In addition to improved linearity throughout the year, the decline was primarily driven by the timing of Onshore Wind North America orders due to PTC and Healthcare supply chain constraints. As you know, we stopped factoring this year. The fourth quarter impact was roughly $2 billion, bringing the full year adjustment to approximately $5.1 billion. Working capital was the biggest driver of our free cash flow this quarter and focused on two key dynamics. Receivables were a source of cash, mainly driven by continued operational rigor. For example, this quarter, daily management has improved DSO in three of our four businesses, with total company down DSO of 12 days for the full year. On inventory, we reduced 0.5 billion, mainly from renewables. This was due to seasonally higher deliveries and more rigorous material management driven by lean as we adjust for the 2022 market demand. We have more to do, but we're confident this will be a source of cash in '22. For the year, free cash flow was $1.9 billion or $2.6 billion ex discontinued factoring. As previously discussed, the consolidation to one column resulted in a negative impact of $3.2 billion, mostly from interest and derivatives. When you add back the impact of discontinued factoring, we generated $5.8 billion of Industrial free cash flow in '21. As Larry said earlier, we believe this best represents our operating performance for the year, and this is the number which we will grow from in '22 and going forward. Allowance and discount payments or AD&A were net zero this quarter, which is $200 million better than we anticipated due to delayed aircraft deliveries. This resulted in total year '21 AD&A flow of a positive $500 million, flat year over year. Let's take a look at free cash flow by business for the year, ex factoring all periods. Aviation delivered an impressive $4.6 billion, up $2.6 billion. This was driven by services strength aligning with the market recovery, improved working capital, including strong customer collections and timing of customer allowance payments. Healthcare delivered $2.7 billion, which was roughly flat ex BioPharma. Higher earnings were offset by working capital pressure linked to supply chain constraints. Renewables was negative $1.2 billion versus breakeven last year. We saw a decline in the U.S. equipment orders due to PTC. The lower down payments drove a $1.5 billion of progress burn, while inventory and receivables substantially improved. Total power generated $1.2 billion, up $600 million, mainly driven by improved earnings and working capital at Gas Power, including substantial progress payments for aeroderivative orders and backlog growth. This was partially offset by the impact of new build coal, which was about $500 million negative. Overall, our returns are driving working capital improvements, which coupled with higher earnings, will continue to drive measurable free cash flow growth in '22. Turning to Slide 8. We've made substantial progress strengthening our long-term financial position. On leverage, our rating agency-aligned net debt-to-EBITDA was 5.4 times in '21, improving from our estimate of approximately six times, driven by higher debt reduction. Using a market-aligned measure, which includes bonds, preferreds and cash, as you can see on the slide, we ended '21 at 3.3 times and expect to be around two times at the end of '22. We expect our leverage to continue to decrease with a clear focus on improving operations and thereby EBITDA. Additionally, we have significant sources available, growing free cash flow, cash on hand of $16 billion and our stakes in AerCap and Baker Hughes, totaling $13 billion. We've continued to derisk and actively manage our pension. We decreased our after-tax deficit by $8 billion, ending the year at $12 billion, driven by strong asset returns and a favorable interest rate environment. Going forward, the strength of our balance sheet positions us well to create three independent investment grade and industry-leading companies and enables us to invest for growth. Moving to our business results, which I'll also speak to on an organic basis. First, on Aviation. Our strong results reflect our underlying business fundamentals and a recovery in commercial market. For the quarter, orders grew double digits. Both Commercial Engines and services were up substantially again year over year. Military orders were down, largely due to a tough comp when we had large wins on F404 and F414 last year, but demand remains strong. Revenue was up. Commercial Services grew significantly. Shop visits was up over 40% again year over year and mid-single digits sequentially. Overall scope improved sequentially. MRO purchases were seasonally higher in the fourth quarter. And as usual, we expect activity to decline significantly in the first quarter. Commercial Engines was down double digits. The driver here were twofold. First, mix continues to shift to more NPI units, specifically with lower production rates on GEnx. Second, we're navigating continued supply chain and labor availability challenges. Military was also down as output challenges continue, but we are seeing significantly higher first-time yields in the areas where we have fully implemented lean and sustainable process improvements. It's taking more time to realize the process benefits across all production lines. We'll see more tangible and visible progress, particularly through the second half of '22. Segment margin expanded significantly year over year and sequentially. This was primarily driven by Commercial Services growth and favorable Commercial Engines mix. For the year, while Aviation revenue was slightly below our expectations, margin expanded to 13.5% reported. This leverage was supported by solid services as shop visits increased 10% year over year, and we reduced operational costs. Looking at '22, given our strong fourth quarter margin, a moment on Aviation in the first quarter. We expect margins closer to mid-teens, driven by seasonal decreases in MRO buying behavior and the new engine ramp. Broadly speaking, we continue to evaluate and manage the impact of Omicron and we're confident in the long-term fundamentals of this business. Moving to Healthcare. Looking at our performance, market momentum continues to drive strong demand despite the industrywide supply chain constraints. For the quarter, orders were up high single digits, both year over year and compared to '19 levels. This was driven by high single-digit growth in Healthcare Systems and low single-digit growth in PDx. Revenue was down with a mid-single-digit decline in Healthcare Systems. This more than offset the low single-digit growth at PDx. Service revenue increased low single digits. Industrywide semiconductor, resin, parts and labor shortages continued across all modalities. Absent these shortages, meaning if we were able to fill all orders, we estimate that organic revenue growth would have been about seven to eight points higher in the fourth quarter or year over year, a growth of 4% and about three to four points higher for the full year or growth of mid-single digits. Supply chain challenges are expected to continue at least through the first half of '22, which we're actively managing. We are confident that these factors are temporary and the business should return to long-term sustainable growth. We've seen elective procedures holding through the year-end. While Omicron is having a more recent impact on procedure volumes, it is still too early to quantify, but we're encouraged to see hospitals better managing routine procedures along with COVID cases. Segment margin declined year over year, largely driven by supply chain issues and inflation. Also recall that the fourth quarter was a difficult comp to 2020 as revenue began to rebound significantly from COVID lows. This was partially offset by productivity and higher PDx volume. In addition, we're seeing evidence of lean-driven operational improvement, including healthcare finance, where our team is lean to reduce the quarter close process to five days down from 10 days just two years ago. For the year, Healthcare delivered strong performance. We proactively managed sourcing and logistics as well as qualifying new parts, for example, to partially mitigate supply chain impact. Orders were up double digits with strength in HCS and PDx. Revenue was up low single digits and margins expanded with 70 basis points. Overall, this strength has enabled us to increase our recent organic and inorganic investments. We continue to reinvest launching a significant number of exciting new products in MR, CT, X-ray, handheld ultrasound, interventional and digital. The innovation we deliver extends beyond clinical capabilities. We also always consider how can we help customers make the most of their investments whether that's through efficient digital upgrades at AI, such as our AIR Recon DL, or leveraging a platform like Revolution Apex CT to scale existing solutions without significant hardware changes. And on the inorganic side, we completed the acquisition of BK Medical in December, adding fast-growing surgical visualization assets to our $3 billion ultrasound business. Looking forward, Healthcare is well positioned for continued profitable growth, targeting 25 to 75 bps of margin expansion as we prepare to stand up the business as an independent company. Turning to Renewables. As Larry said, we're focused on improving our performance in '22 and '23. Looking at the quarter, orders were down double digits, driven largely by PTC uncertainty, delaying investments in the U.S. onshore equipment. Offshore was also down slightly despite several large orders, including Dogger Bank this quarter. Revenue declined mid-single digits, driven by lower equipment deliveries at onshore and continued project selectivity at grid. Offshore was also lower, driven by project timing. Services partially offset these declines as repower revenue nearly doubled, even X-ray power, X-ray services grew double digits for the year. Segment margin declined over 500 basis points, largely due to onshore and grid. Onshore margins decline were negative, driven by our international business. We continue to experience challenge related to our new technology ramp as well as project execution and lower margins on older deals in the backlog, which will run off over the next couple of years. In the U.S., margins improved. This was due to continued productivity and higher repower sales, partially offset by lower volume. At Grid, cost actions were more than offset by continued volume declines, largely driven by selectivity and project costs. While both supply chain and inflation impacts were limited this quarter, rising inflation will be a bigger impact in 2022 as we have previously flagged. So for the year, we delivered double-digit order growth driven by offshore, while revenue and margin both declined. Long term, we are firmly positioned to lead the energy transition, building on advanced technologies like the Haliade-X, which we'll begin delivering in '22. Moving to Power. The team delivered strong performance this year, driven by operational improvements, especially at Gas Power. For the quarter, orders were down driven by Gas Power offsetting Steam growth. Gas declined, facing a tough comp and some customer timing changes. This quarter, we booked four HA units, some of which will run on hydrogen-blended natural gas. We see continued momentum on our HA with more than 20 tech selections for the year, which will likely manifest in orders in '22 and '23. Steam orders were up across equipment and services, driven by the nuclear part of the same business. Revenue was down. Equipment was down due to fewer unit shipments, reduced turnkey scope with gas and Steam's continued exit of new build coal. We're navigating supply chain constraints, which significantly impacted deliveries this quarter. Services was up. Gas was up double digits with both CSA and transactional volume growth. One reminder, due to the aeroderivative joint venture with Baker being deconsolidated effective November 1, gas services revenue no longer includes the sales from the joint venture to Baker Hughes or about one billion -- $0.5 billion of lower reported annual revenue. Steam services was down on continued selectivity. Margins expanded year over year and were up sequentially, largely driven by Gas Power services. All businesses delivered positive margins this quarter. For the year, orders were up low single digits. Gas orders were about flat with services offsetting equipment. We remain selective with disciplined underwriting. Margin in our gas equipment backlog increased by two points. And due to selectivity, 80% of our heavy-duty unit orders were equipment-only in scope. Power revenue was down 4%. Services saw double-digit growth led by gas, while equipment was down with turnkey revenue about $1 billion lower year over year since coal equipment backlog also ended below $1 billion and power conversion grew double digits. Margins improved more than 300 basis points. Gas has stabilized, achieving high single-digit margins and power conversion achieved low single-digit margins, reflecting operational improvement through the year. Looking at '22, we see opportunities to expand margins and improve free cash flow as lean becomes further embedded and Steam continues to exit new build coal. At Gas, equipment revenue will increase driven by aeroderivative growth and heavy-duty normalizing. HA commissioned units will almost double by year-end versus 2020, supporting future services and cash growth. We expect total power to achieve high single-digit margins in 2023. Now closing with Corporate. As we've discussed, we're driving leaner processes and decentralization to reduce functional and operational costs. Compared to our outlook on the prior reporting basis, adjusted corporate costs was less than $1 billion in '21, down 30%. Adjusted capital net income was negative $350 million, better than our most recent guide of negative $500 million. As we've mentioned earlier, on our one-column basis, Capital is now part of Corporate. So for the year, adjusted Corporate cost was $1.2 billion with functions and operations continuing to improve. I'm encouraged at Digital, with double-digit order growth in the fourth quarter and exciting innovations such as autonomous tuning software. This applies AI to continuously optimize any gas turbine to operate with the ideal combustion and reduce emissions and fuel consumption. At Insurance, which is included -- excluded from our organic results as this is a run-off business, net income was approximately $450 million. This was up significantly, driven primarily by strong investment results and favorable claim experience in our LTC portfolio, partially offset by higher paid claims in our life portfolio. Consistent with prior years, we will finalize our annual statutory cash flow test in the first quarter. We currently anticipate that this will be in line with our permitted practice requirements. In discontinued operations, we have our run-off Polish BPH mortgage portfolio with a current gross balance of $2.4 billion. This quarter, we recorded charges of about $200 million, mainly driven by more adverse results in the ongoing litigation with borrowers. This brings the total estimate of losses in connection with this litigation to approximately $800 million. In all, this quarter marked a strong close to 2021. As you can see, lean and decentralization are not just operational levers. They are becoming embedded in our culture and in the business. These operational improvements drove margin expansion, EPS growth and free cash flow generation for the year, and we are continuing to improve. Our strong performance is enabling us to play more offense and drive sustainable, long-term profitable growth. Now Larry, back to you.Larry Culp -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Carolina, thanks. Turning the page to 2022. We're planning to provide more detail during our March investor event that Steve referenced. But today, let me share our company overview. Looking at Slide 10, we're expecting organic revenue growth in the high single-digit range; organic margin expansion of 150 basis points or more; adjusted EPS of $2.80 to $3.50 a share; and a range of $5.5 billion to $6.5 billion for free cash flow. There are a number of key assumptions underpinning our plan for the year. Let me start with Aviation. The continued commercial market recovery will again be one of the most critical factors to delivering our '22 outlook. Starting with the market, we're currently planning for improved GE CFM departures, which we expect to average down about 10% off '19 levels and total year shop visits to be up about 20% year over year. We expect revenue will increase more than 20% driven by strong worldwide shop visit growth and the ramp of LEAP engine deliveries. Margins will expand despite commercial mix pressure as LEAP engine deliveries increase while we increase our investment in new technology. Looking across our other segments. At Healthcare, we see low to mid-single-digit revenue growth driven by our commercial efforts and new product launches, tempered by continued supply chain challenges through at least the first half. We're targeting solid margin expansion this year inclusive of more than $1 billion of R&D spend. In Renewables, we've discussed in detail how we're driving operational improvement today in a smaller Onshore Wind market. This better execution, along with Offshore Wind growth will help us deliver low single-digit revenue growth and improved profitability. In Power, continued services strength will drive low single-digit revenue growth while we continue to increase selectivity and exit new build coal. We're on a path toward high single-digit margins in '23. We'll discuss cash more on the next slide, but across each business, we're driving operational improvements that in turn will deliver higher cash flow for the company. Better earnings and working capital management, especially inventory will enable us to grow free cash flow in 2022. For the first quarter, though, we expect free cash flow to be negative. In aggregate, our substantial backlog and large services installed base give us confidence in our ability to deliver on these commitments. We're focused on delivering profitable growth and stronger cash generation, enabling us to reinvest in growth and play more offense. Moving to Slide 11. Our strong $5.8 billion of free cash performance in '21 sets us up well to deliver $5.5 billion to $6.5 billion of free cash in '22. Looking at the year over year dynamics. Following last year's significant debt reduction actions, legacy capital outflows will be dramatically lower, down to $0.5 billion. We expect earnings will continue to grow driven by revenue growth and margin expansion. Excluding the capital impact, this drives the bulk of the year-over-year improvement. We expect working capital to be a source with continued lean efforts offsetting volume growth. We see opportunity to improve inventory turns as we resolve supply chain constraints. At Renewables, we expect a higher impact from onshore progress collections resulting from down payments on new orders and fewer deliveries in '22. And as both gas and aircraft engine utilization increases, we expect CSA billings to increase as well. We anticipate an AD&A outflow of $0.5 billion or a year-over-year negative impact of $1 billion, as our customers plan for higher deliveries in '22. We expect a limited drag from other cash flows, including growth investments supported by higher capex. Some color by business compared to '21 free cash flow, excluding the impact of discontinued factoring. We expect Aviation will be slightly down, driven by the AD&A headwinds I mentioned a moment ago, while Healthcare, Renewables and Power all improved year over year. This positive trajectory gives us conviction in achieving high single-digit margins or greater than $7 billion of free cash flow in '23 with today's portfolio of businesses. Closing on Slide 12. Since our announcement in November, we've received very encouraging feedback. Our customers are excited. In hundreds of conversations, they've indicated that the new structure will help us better serve their needs. There's also a lot of excitement within the company. Our teams are highly motivated. They're sharpening their focus and picking up the pace. This makes me even more confident in what we'll deliver this year. And our investors are also very supportive and see the value creation opportunity ahead. We have three terrific businesses that are leaders in their respective industries. And independently, they will be able to attract an even broader investor base with distinct sector-specific investment propositions. During the transition, it's critical that our employees remain focused on serving our customers and driving daily business performance. While nearly all of the company remains fully dedicated to running the business, we've established a dedicated separation management office led by Jen VanBelle and the senior leadership team. They are focused on detailed work stream planning and execution to deliver on each business' critical value drivers, ranging from optimizing their operating model to their capital structures, armed with best-in-class talent and board governance starting with healthcare. We're also naming leadership for these independent companies. Pete Arduini started as the Healthcare CEO earlier this month. He's already deeply engaged with our team and customers and has started meeting with investors and analysts, including at recent conferences, where the focus has been on technology and growth. And we're attracting new talent who are excited to be part of this, including Scott Reese, who will lead our Digital business, which will be part of the go-forward energy businesses. So we've hit the ground running to launch three outstanding businesses at scale in places the world needs and wants GE at its best. Each business will be focused and accountable with the agility to respond faster to customer needs, and there will be more opportunities for employees, management teams, boards and investors who increasingly want to be part of dedicated industries and missions. And these businesses, each with a well-capitalized balance sheet, will enjoy greater capital allocation and strategic flexibility to invest in growth. It's still early in the process, and we look forward to updating you as we move forward. More broadly, this is the next phase of building a world that works. GE is exceptionally well positioned to create long-term growth and value in our three critical global needs, shaping the future of flight, delivering precision healthcare and leading the energy transition. I'm proud of the work our teams are doing to enable a more sustainable, healthier, cleaner and connected future for all. And we look forward to seeing as many of you as can make it to Greenville, South Carolina in March for our outlook event. Steve Winoker -- Vice President of Investor Relations [Operator instructions] Brandon, can you please open the line? 