  OperatorGood morning. The Roper Technologies conference call will now begin. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Zack Moxcey, vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead.Zack Moxcey -- Vice President, Investor Relations Good morning, and thank you all for joining us as we discuss the first quarter financial results for Roper Technologies. Joining me on the call this morning are Neil Hunn, president and chief executive officer; Rob Crisci, executive vice president and chief financial officer; Jason Conley, vice president and chief accounting officer; and Shannon O'Callaghan, vice president of finance. Earlier this morning, we issued a press release announcing our financial results. The press release also includes replay information for today's call. We have prepared slides to accompany today's call, which are available through the webcast and are also available on our website. Now if you'll please turn to Page 2. We begin with our safe harbor statement. During the course of today's call, we will make forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties as described on this page, in our press release and in our SEC filings.You should listen to today's call in the context of that information. And now please turn to Page 3. Unless otherwise noted, we will discuss our results and guidance on an adjusted non-GAAP and continuing operations basis. For the first quarter, the difference between our GAAP results and adjusted results consists of the following items: amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and purchase accounting adjustments to commission expense. Reconciliations can be found in our press release and in the appendix of this presentation on our website. And now if you please turn to Page 4, I will hand the call over to Neil. After our prepared remarks, we will take questions from our telephone participants. Neil? Neil Hunn -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Zack, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us. As I'm sure many of you have already noticed, we are introducing Roper's new logo on today's call. Our new logo better reflects our transformation journey while paying honor and respect to our legacy. As a fun fact, our legacy logo was first introduced in 1977. So with that, let's turn to Page 4 and review today's agenda. As usual, we start with our quarterly highlights, followed by our segment by segment overview, then go through our increased outlook for guidance expectations and leave plenty of time to address all your questions. Next slide, please. As we turn to Page 5, the main takeaways from today's call are: first, we continue to increase the quality, predictability and durability of the underlying business models and revenue streams; second, we continue to deliver strong organic growth and operating results, enabling us to increase our organic growth outlook and DEPS guidance for the year; and third, we have substantial M&A capacity, given our rapid deleveraging and completion of our TransCore divestiture. As it relates to the first quarter, we're delighted to report another strong quarter of execution and positive momentum across the portfolio. Specifically, we grew revenue on an organic basis, 11% in the quarter. This growth was broad-based across each of our four segments. Not only did we grow nicely in the quarter, but the quality of the underlying business also improved as we saw double-digit organic increases in our recurring revenue base. In addition to our strong software growth, our product businesses performed quite nicely in the quarter as well, experiencing very high levels of demand and record levels of backlog. Also during the quarter, we completed the divestiture of our project-based TransCore business. As you'll note, we now have $3.2 billion of cash on our balance sheet. When combined with our borrowing capacity, we have over $5 billion of available capital deployment firepower, which when deployed will further help drive cash flow and shareholder value compounding. So with this, definitely a solid start to the year. Now let me turn the call to Rob, who will walk through our financial summary. Rob?Rob Crisci -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Neil. Good morning, everyone. Turning to Page 6 and covering some of the Q1 financial highlights. Total revenue increased 11% to $1.53 billion. As Neil mentioned, organic revenue also increased 11% with broad-based strength across our four reporting segments. Application Software grew 9% organically. Network Software grew 16%. Our MAS segment grew 7%. And finally, our smallest segment, Process Technologies, was up 18%. EBITDA margin was 37.8% for the quarter, resulting in EBITDA increasing 8% to $577 million. Notably, that $577 million of Q1 EBITDA on a continuing operations basis is actually higher than the Q1 EBITDA we reported last April, when we still own and, of course, consolidated TransCore and the other two divested businesses. Adjusted DEPS for the quarter was 3.77%, which was well above our guidance range of $363 million to $367 million. Free cash flow was $459 million, with solid EBITDA cash conversion of 80%. That's above the Q1 conversion levels we experienced in 2019 and 2020 but below last year's exceptionally strong Q1 conversion of 96%. To that end, there are two discrete cash items that combined to create an $80 million Q1 headwind versus prior year. As discussed on last April's call, last year's Q1 included $40 million of accelerated payments to CliniSys. Furthermore, this year's Q1 reflects a $40 million increase in incentive compensation as a result of our strong 2021 performance compared to the pandemic year of 2020. So stepping back, we are, of course, focused on long-term compounding here at Roper. In the three blue bars at the bottom of our page, you can see our three-year compounding from Q1 2019 for revenue, EBITDA and free cash flow was 10%, 13% and 17%, respectively. So in summary, an excellent start to the year. Next slide. Turning to Page 7, which is an update on our financial position. Turning to the balance sheet. As Neil mentioned, we have a very large cash balance, which is the result of closing the TransCore divestiture during the quarter and receiving the gross proceeds. We have yet to pay the approximately $650 million of taxes related to the divestitures and which will be paid during the final three quarters of 2022. As of March 31, as Neil mentioned, our cash balance stood at $3.2 billion, which brings our net debt down to $4.2 billion or approximately 1.9x our TTM EBITDA from continuing ops. So with our healthy combination of balance sheet cash, continued strong free cash flow generation and our investment-grade leverage capacity, we are very well positioned to deploy $5 billion or more of capital. So with that, I'll turn it back over to Neil to cover our segments in greater detail. Neil Hunn -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Rob. Let's turn to Page 9 and walk through the Q1 highlights for our Application Software segment. Revenues here were $632 million, up 9% on an organic basis, and EBITDA margins were 44.1%. Across this segment, we saw recurring revenue, which is a touch north of 75% of the revenue for this segment increased 10% in the quarter. This recurring revenue growth is enabled by strong customer retention, continued migration to our SaaS delivery models, cross-selling activity and new customer adds. Across this group of companies, the financial strength was quite broad. As we highlight a few businesses, we'll start with Vertafore. Vertafore had an excellent quarter, which was highlighted by strong ARR bookings activity and revenue growth. In addition, during the quarter, Vertafore released its new commercial submissions product line. To remind everyone, Vertafore's strategy is to help tech-enabled workflows for their P&C agent customers. This new product is a meaningful step in this direction as it allows agents to quote multiple carriers in a simple automated workflow. Great stuff from the Vertafore team. Turning to Deltek. They posted another great quarter with strength across all end markets served. Deltek continues to gain momentum, driving adoption to their cloud-based product offerings. Deltek also continues to be benefited by having favorable secular tailwinds. CliniSys and Data Innovations continue to exhibit strong demand and operational strength. Specifically, CliniSys continued its market share gains in the U.K. As a reminder, CliniSys is one of four strategic IT vendors to the National Health Service. DI was awesome in the quarter with continued strength, driven by their direct go-to-market approach and large wins within the VA system. Aderant continues to be a solid performer for Roper, extending their share gains in the large law space. Also in the quarter, licensing activity tied to seed expansions was very strong. They also continue to see a meaningful shift toward our cloud offerings, driving substantial increases to the recurring revenue base. Strata whose cloud-based software helps hospitals plan, budget and manage their operations continues to execute their cross-selling strategy with TTM net retention north of 110%. Of note, we are in the midst of an orderly leader transition at Strata, Dan Michelson, who has led Strata for the last 10 years is retiring. As an element of Roper's talent offense, Strata has been developing its next CEO, John Martino, for the past several years. As part of John's development, he started in the CFO function then led commercial and go-to-market functions and then became the company's COO. Strata's future is secure given the successful succession planning. Big thanks to Dan for all your leadership and accomplishments at Strata. John, we are super confident with you at the helm, your new role is well earned. Congrats. Finally, PowerPlan posted a strong double-digit growth quarter, driven by recurring revenue adds and higher services utilization. They also have a substantial new product road map slated for this year, which we're looking forward to discussing on subsequent calls. Looking to the outlook for 2022 in the segment, we expect to see mid-single-digit growth for the balance of the year, driven by continued strong ARR momentum. With that, let's turn to the next slide. Turning to Page 10. As a reminder, the financial performance for this segment as well as the X2, MAS and PT are shown on a continuing ops basis. Revenue in the first quarter for our Network segment was $369 million, up 16% on an organic basis and EBITDA margins were strong at 51.2%. The 16% organic growth is underpinned by 16% growth in recurring revenue, which is roughly 80% of the segment's revenue base. As we dig into business-specific performance, our U.S. and Canadian freight matching businesses continue to be super strong during the quarter. The market conditions continue to be quite favorable, which led to record levels of network adds again, especially on the carrier side of the network. In addition, DAT continues to do a nice job of increasing revenue per user by both adding features and improving value capture. Over the longer arc of time, our freight matching businesses continue to be well positioned to enable the digitization of the spot freight markets. Moving to Foundry. Our software business that enables the combination of live action filming and computer-generated graphics to be combined into a single frame, had record bookings, revenue and EBITDA for the first quarter. Net retention is north of 110% and ARR grew double digits. Foundry success is rooted in their fast-paced innovation capability in favorable long-term market conditions. iTrade, our network food supply chain business and iPipeline, our life insurance SaaS business helping to tech enable the quoting and underwriting processes each had strong customer additions, which helped drive strong ARR growth in the quarter. Finally, RF IDeas had record orders with growth coming from secure print and identity management applications. Turning to the outlook for the balance of the year. We expect to see high single-digit organic growth for this segment, driven by a combination of strong recurring revenue momentum and favorable market tailwinds. Kindly turn to the next slide. As we turn to Page 11, revenues in our MAS segment were $392 million, up 7% on an organic basis. EBITDA margins for the segment were 31.5% for the quarter. Again, these results are on a continuing ops basis. Before getting into business-specific details across this segment, demand continues to be very strong and product backlogs continue to be at record levels. Also, each of these businesses are navigating the current supply chain complexities. While margins were in line with our expectations, they were negatively impacted versus prior year and are impacted by the availability and pricing of raw material components as well as expediting freight costs. As our businesses increased price actions take hold throughout the year, margins should improve as we get into the second half. As it relates to our business-specific commentary, we'll start with Neptune, which had record orders, revenue and quarter ending backlog. Neptune has been able to gain market share by being successful in keeping product lead times at industry-leading terms and releasing new products, both in terms of cellular connectivity and static meter reading technology. Verathon, Northern Digital and each of our medical product franchises remain super solid. Verathon continues to see strong demand and market share gains in their single-use bronchoscope category and NDI sees the same in both our optical and electromechanical measurement capabilities. These businesses are beneficiaries of long-term and favorable market tailwinds. As it relates to our industrial businesses, demand throughout the quarter was quite strong, given the improving end market and capital spending conditions. As it relates to the outlook for the balance of the year, we expect to see high single-digit growth for this segment, underpinned by strong demand and backlog levels, but somewhat constrained by the current supply chain environment. Net-net, we expect a very strong balance of the year for this group -- for the balance of the year for this group. Now let's turn to our final segment, Process Tech. As we turn to Page 12, revenue on our Process Tech segment were $134 million in Q1, up 18% on an organic basis. EBITDA margins were 32.5% in the quarter. These results are also reported on a continuing ops basis. The story here is we continue to see improving end market conditions across virtually every one of our businesses in this segment and very strong demand. Cornell continues to perform well for us delivering record orders in backlog in the quarter. The strength is partially based on market conditions, but also based on Cornell's product innovation as they're seeing very nice demand tick up for their IoT connected pumping solutions and the share gains they are doing as a result of their niche-focused go-to-market teams. Also, our upstream oil and gas businesses saw strength in the quarter. Similar to that, our MAS product businesses, these businesses are also being impacted by supply chain challenges, but continue to navigate well through the issues. As we turn to the outlook for the balance of 2022, we expect high-teens organic growth based on strong levels of backlog and solid market conditions. Now please turn to Page 14, and we'll talk through our 2022 increased guidance outlook. Based on a solid start to Q1, strong growth in our software recurring revenue base and record levels of product demand and backlog, we are increasing our full year 2022 DEPS guidance to be in the range of $15.50 and $15.75 up from our original guidance of $15.25 and $15.55. Underpinning this DEPS guidance is our increased organic revenue growth expectation of 7% to 9% for the year. We expect a steady tax rate in the 21% to 22% range. As we look to the second quarter, we're establishing DEPS guidance to be in the range of $3.80 and $3.84, again, on a continuing ops basis. Now our concluding comments, and we'll get to your questions. As we turn to Page 15 in our closing remarks, we want to leave you with the same three points we started with: One, as we grow, we are increasing the quality of the underlying business and business model; two, we had a strong start to the year; and three, we have substantial M&A capacity available to us. As it relates to a strong start, we grew revenues organically 11% and EBITDA 8%. More so, we have grown our cash flow 17% on a three-year compounded basis. We are lifting our full year organic growth and DEPS guidance based on the factors outlined during this call, specifically strong recurring revenue growth, record demand for our product businesses and generally favorable market conditions. Finally, we have reloaded our balance sheet and continue to have an active and engaged pipeline of M&A opportunities. We have north of $5 billion of available M&A firepower. So as we turn to your questions, we would like to highlight that our inaugural ESG report was published to our website earlier today. This report outlines our commitment to ESG and our sustainability principles. And with that, let's open it to your questions. 