
OperatorGreetings. Welcome to the Leidos Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Stuart Davis with Investor Relations. Stuart, you may now begin.Stuart Davis -- Investor RelationsThank you, Rob, and good morning everyone. I'd like to welcome you to our third quarter fiscal year 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Joining me today are Roger Krone, our Chairman and CEO, and Chris Cage, our Chief Financial Officer. Today's call is being webcast on the Investor Relations portion of our website, where you will also find the earnings release and supplemental financial presentation slides that we'll use during today's call. Turning to Slide 2 of the presentation.

 



Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements based on the environment as we currently see it and as such does include risks and uncertainties. Please refer to our press release for more information on the specific risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Finally, as shown on Slide 3, during the call we will discuss GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation between the two is included in today's press release and presentation slides. With that, I'll turn the call over to Roger Krone, who will begin on Slide 4.Roger Krone -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Stuart, and thank you all for joining us this morning. The third quarter marked another strong quarter for Leidos with record levels of revenue, adjusted EBITDA. non-GAAP diluted EPS, and backlog. Our success is the direct result of building our business portfolio, focused on vital missions and a workforce that is motivated to enhance those missions through technology, engineering, and science. As we described at our October Investor Day, we see continued success ahead based on our scale, positioning, and talented people. To organize my remarks, I'll address four messages. First, our financial results demonstrate our ability to grow organically, drive earnings, and generate cash. Second, our business development engine delivered large and important awards that speak to our differentiated position in the market. Third, we're effectively deploying capital to create shareholder value. And fourth, we are investing in our people and building a company that we can all be proud of.Number one, our strong financial performance was highlighted by outstanding earnings and cash performance. Revenue of $3.48 billion, we're up organically 6% year-over-year ahead of the market. Non-GAAP diluted EPS for the quarter was a $1.80, which was up 22% year-over-year, driven by strong operating performance as reflected in our adjusted EBITDA margin of 11.6%. Finally, we generated $565 million of cash flow from operations, and free cash flow of $541 million for our free cash flow conversion ratio of 211% of non-GAAP net income. With an asset-light model, and ability to take EBITDA and to convert it to cash, and a lean balance sheet, cash generation is a hallmark of Leidos.

 



Number 2, business development continued the momentum that is driving our industry leading organic growth this year. We achieved net bookings of $4.7 billion in the quarter, representing a book to bill ratio of 1.4, our 15th consecutive quarter with a book to bill ratio of 1.0 or greater. As a result, total backlog at the end of the quarter stood at a record $34.7 billion, which was up 9% on a year-over-year basis. I will now touch on four of our key wins. We were awarded a $600 million prime contract to continue to support the Army's Geospatial Center, BuckEye mission. We're providing mission critical unclassified high resolution color imagery and digital 3D terrain over all operationally relevant areas of the world.Our scale enabled us to invest in aircraft that we own and operate, and a cadre of professionals to support the mission. Through this program, we provide our war fighters with a decisive advantage on the battlefield. And given the unclassified nature of the BuckEye data, support partner nations as well as humanitarian assistance and disaster relief. The National Security Agency awarded us a $300 million prime contract to develop and modernize the agency's technical signals intelligence mission. Under the contract, we provide the technical services to develop, deploy, and sustain a wide range of enhanced tech collection, production, and analysis capabilities that provide our nation's leaders and military troops with actionable intelligence and critical information to protect and defend our country.The US Army awarded our Dynetics subsidiary a $237 million, two-and-a-half-year contract, for the enduring Indirect Fires Protection Capability, or IFPC, to produce a transportable system to engage and defeat cruise missile and unmanned aircraft system threats. Our solution uses an open system architecture that provides both flexibility and growth, as well as full integration with the Army's Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command System. Under this initial contract, we'll deliver 16 launcher prototypes and 60 interceptors. I view this as the seed corn. If we do it right, IFPC can grow into a billion dollar plus program. The contract includes options for follow on production of hundred launchers with associated interceptors.Finally, Customs and Border Protection awarded us another important multi-award IDIQ for non-intrusive inspection. So far this year, we've received two IDIQs with a total of $870 million in ceiling value and $200 million in tasking on those contracts. Safeguarding our nation's ports and borders is a critical priority and CBP has set a goal of 100% screening of cars and cargo at the border, versus the single digit percentages that we achieve today. Congress has appropriated a significant amount of money for more screening. So we see this as a great opportunity for us.

 



Number 3. I view capital allocation as one of my key functions as CEO, and we're deploying capital to create shareholder value. During the quarter, we bought back 137 million of our stock through open market repurchases. At our Investor Day in October, we shared a target of $3.5 billion in cash flow from operations from 2022 through 2024. After considering capital expenditures, some debt pay down, and our dividend program, we'll have approximately $2.2 billion to deploy across M&A and share repurchases. We're always looking at technology add-ons and so that pipeline is pretty active. In Q3, we added a small strategic acquisition to our Dynetics subsidiary to accelerate some of its growth opportunities. Beyond that, there is currently nothing major on the horizon. We've built a portfolio that we're proud of and we think we're well positioned to grow. We'll pursue large M&A only if we find a property along the way that could really help accelerate our strategy. Number 4.People are at the heart of what we do, and this quarter demonstrated our ability to attract the talent that we need. During the quarter, we hired more than 2,900 people, and at the end of the quarter, we were more than 43,000 strong. Our headcount grew 2% sequentially and 12% year-over-year. Still, recruiting is an evergreen challenge. We have about 1,400 funded vacancies, and recruiting and retention remains areas of strategic focus for the leadership team. One of the reasons we're attractive to job applicants is that we invest in upskilling our people and building an innovation culture. As an example, in Q3 we held our first ever Leidos Sphere, a 24-hour virtual technology conference that brought together employees from around the world to share technical solutions.CTOs, solutions architects, and other technologist streamed presentations live from the US, Australia, Israel, and the UK. I personally saw the clear value for participants with real time answers to questions and lively chat discussions. In a time of increasingly complex global challenges, our global network of customers and colleagues working together to address those challenges is a competitive differentiator. Another part of what makes Leidos so attractive is that we're a values based company. This leadership team is committed to Leidos being a great corporate citizen. We're mindful of our opportunities and responsibilities to our many stakeholders, especially as we grow. With our mission to make the world, safer, healthier and more efficient, we believe we can build a future where our people and technology make a real impact.Having achieved our legacy greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal, we have now set new environmental goals as well as social and governance goals for 2030. Our new next level Leidos ESG goals highlight key efforts related to cultivating inclusion, advancing environmental sustainability, and promoting healthier lives. We believe these efforts will not only sustain and enrich our culture at Leidos, but they'll also have a positive impact on all of our stakeholders. We'll report our progress annually in our Corporate Responsibility Report, which we've been publishing for more than a decade. Through this effort, we're committed to continued transparency and how we're doing from a diversity and environmental standpoint, as well as making the lives of our employees and communities better. And so you'll see that in our disclosures. Before turning the call over to Chris, I'd like to address the current budget environment as it gives important context for the guidance that he will be providing.As expected, Congress enacted a continuing resolution and suspended the debt ceiling to avoid a shutdown and economic turmoil. Each is now set to expire on December 3. The current thinking is that Congress will try to package the spending bills together into an omnibus spending bill for the President to sign before December 3, or they may kick the can down the road and pass another CR that could last until next March. In addition, the House has indicated that it plans to attempt to pass two large legislative items this week or maybe this month. The first, the $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure framework to improve the country's roads, bridges, broadband, and other critical infrastructure priorities has already passed the Senate, so it would head to President Biden's desk for signature.The second, the $1.75 trillion build back better proposal to overhaul the nation's healthcare, education, climate, and tax laws who would head to the Senate for debate. The fate of both bills is still unclear as is the path forward on the spending bills and the debt ceiling. In the face of this uncertainty, some of our customers have tamped down their normal spending patterns. Given the mission critical nature of our work, we expect only a modest impact to our results while the budget issues remain unresolved. I will now turn the call over to Chris Cage.Christopher Cage -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Roger, and thanks to everyone for joining us today. As Roger said Q3 was an outstanding quarter for earnings and cash. And I'm proud of the team for delivering such strong operating performance. Let's jump right into the third quarter results, beginning with the income statement on Slide 5. Revenues for the quarter were $3.48 billion, up 7% compared to the prior year quarter, excluding acquired revenues of $47 million, revenues increased 6% organically, with organic growth across all three reportable segments. We're pleased to continue to outpace the market, but revenues were below our expectation. The main driver of the shortfall was in lower margin material purchases due in part to supply chain issues for computers and technology components, and due to reduced activity levels due to concerns over the predictability of funding that Roger just mentioned.We were able to deliver strong earnings despite these factors. Adjusted EBITDA was $403 million for the third quarter, which was up 16% year-over-year, and adjusted EBITDA margin increased from 10.7% to 11.6% over the same period. This was primarily due to strong program management, higher volumes on some of our fixed price programs, and better direct labor utilization. Non-GAAP net income attributable to Leidos common stockholders was $257 million for the third quarter, which was up 21% year-over-year, and non-GAAP diluted EPS for the quarter was $1.80, up 22% compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2020.Now for an overview of our segment results and key drivers on Slide 6. Defense solutions revenues increased by 3% compared to the prior year quarter. Excluding the acquisitions of 1901 Group and Gibbs & Cox organic revenue was up 1%. The largest growth driver was the engine ramp, which more than offset the completion of the Human Landing System-based contract within Dynetics. Civil revenues increased 3% compared to the prior year quarter, and all of the growth is now organich. The revenue increase was primarily driven by volume growth on existing programs, including the Antarctic support contract, our managed IT services support to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, where we're leveraging our 1901 Group acquisition and our engineering support to commercial energy providers.Health revenues increased 31% compared to the prior year quarter, and all of that growth was organic. We continue to see a nice ramp on the Military and Family Life Counseling Program, in dim sum had a large year-over-year increase based on deployment timing. Like last quarter, the largest year-over-year increase was in the disability examination business in our QTC subsidiary. On the margin front, defense solutions non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter came in at 8.8%, which was unchanged compared to the prior year quarter. Civil non-GAAP operating margin declined from 10.5% in the prior year quarter to 9.6%, as we had fewer deliveries of airport screening systems. Importantly, margins for both defense and civil were up sequentially, consistent with our long-term view for these segments.Health non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter was at 20.7% compared to 16.3% in the prior year quarter. This quarter's strong margin performance benefited from the significantly increased revenue volume on fixed unit price programs in the higher direct labor utilization Turning now to cash flow in the balance sheet on Slide 7. Operating cash flow for the quarter was $565 million and free cash flow, which is net of capital expenditures was $541 million. The exceptional operating cash flow was driven by strong operational performance across the enterprise, and higher customer advance payments, and came despite the $62 million cash tax headwind from last year's CARES Act deferral. During the quarter, we paid down $27 million of debt and repurchased 1.4 million shares. In total, we returned $188 million to shareholders through our quarterly dividend program and share repurchases. As of October 1, 2021, we had $587 million in cash, in cash equivalents in $5.1 billion of debt.As we close out the year, we remain committed to a target leverage ratio of 3 times. Our long-term balanced capital deployment strategy remains the same, and consists of being appropriately levered, maintaining our investment grade rating, returning a quarterly dividend to shareholders, reinvesting for growth both organically and inorganically, and returning excess cash to shareholders in a tax efficient manner. On now to the forward outlook. As shown on Slide 8, we're updating our guidance for fiscal year 2021. Let's walk through the drivers for each metric. We now expect revenues between $13.7 billion and $13.9 billion, which is the bottom half of our previous range. Supply chain delays and customers holding back spending due to concerns over the predictability of funding are the primary drivers here, but some protests have also pushed revenue out of this year. And we're also mindful of the potential impact of vaccine mandates on our workforce.At the midpoint of revenue guidance, revenues in Q4 would increase about $70 million compared to Q3, driven by the continued ramp on new programs like NGen, offsetting moderation in the volume of our medical exam business. At the revenue midpoint, organic growth for the year would be 9% and total revenue growth would be 12%. We expect 2021 adjusted EBITDA margin between 10.9% and 11.1%, which is above the previous range as a result of our Q3 outperformance. As the revenue composition shifts in the fourth quarter, we expect EBITDA margins will come back in and land in the mid 10% range. We expect non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the year between $6.55 and $6.75. So we've increased the midpoint of the range by $0.15 based on our Q3 outperformance. Share repurchases in the third quarter will also add about a penny to Q4 non-GAAP diluted EPS.Finally, our expectation for cash from operations is unchanged at $875 million or greater. Our strong Q3 performance increases our confidence in meeting or exceeding $875 million for the year, but the advance payments in Q3 will be a headwind to Q4 cash generation. Before I close, I want to highlight the three year targets we laid out at Investor Day last month. From 2022 through 2024, we're targeting an organic revenue CAGR of 5% to 6%, adjusted EBITDA margins of 10.5% or greater by 2024, free cash flow conversion of approximately 100%, and cumulative cash flow from operations generation of approximately $3.5 billion. Our market positioning, industry leading scale, and technology differentiation support our position in ability to deliver on these targets.With that, I'll turn the call over to Rob so we can take some questions.