  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Keysight Technologies fiscal first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. My name is Elliott, and I will be your lead operator today. [Operator instructions] Please note that this call is being recorded today, Thursday, February 17, 2022, at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time. I would now like to hand the conference over to Jason Kary, vice president, treasurer and investor relations. Please go ahead, Mr. Kary.Jason Kary -- Vice President, Treasurer, and Investor Relations

 



 Thank you and welcome, everyone, to Keysight's first quarter earnings conference call for fiscal year 2022. Joining me are Ron Nersesian, Keysight's chairman, president and CEO; and Neil Dougherty, our CFO. Joining us in the Q&A session will be Satish Dhanasekaran, chief operating officer; and Mark Wallace, senior vice president of global sales. You can find the press release and information to supplement today's discussion on our website at investor.keysight.com. While there, please click on the link for quarterly reports under the financial information tab. There, you will find an investor presentation along with Keysight's segment results. Following this conference call, we will post a copy of the prepared remarks to the website. Today's comments by Ron and Neil will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.We will also make references to core growth, which excludes the impact of currency movements and acquisitions or divestitures completed within the last 12 months. You will find the most directly comparable GAAP financial metrics and reconciliations on our website. All comparisons are on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise noted. We will make forward-looking statements about the financial performance of the company on today's call. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are only valid as of today. The company assumes no obligation to update them. Please review the company's recent SEC filings for a more complete picture of our risks and other factors. Lastly, I would note that management is scheduled to participate in upcoming investor conferences in March, hosted by Susquehanna, Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse.

 



 And now I will turn the call over to Ron. Ron Nersesian -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jason, and thank you all for joining us. Keysight delivered a strong start to the year. First quarter results are evidence that our broad-based portfolio of differentiated solutions is aligned with the market's most important design and test challenges. We are enabling our customers to address rapidly evolving technologies and market opportunities. Today, I'll focus my comments on three key headlines. First, we continue to see sustained robust demand with record orders again exceeding our expectations. Growth in the quarter was broad-based and balanced across our diverse set of end markets and across all regions. Orders grew 22% year over year and were 31% higher than the first quarter of 2020, just prior to the initial impact of the COVID pandemic.

 



 Second, record first quarter revenue and earnings per share exceeded the high end of our guidance despite ongoing supply constraints. Our results and exceptional execution by the Keysight team continue to demonstrate the durability and resilience of our business. And third, Keysight solutions are aligned with the long-term secular trends fueled by ongoing innovation across multiple markets. Our investments in growth initiatives and supply chain resiliency are paying off. We continue to expect to deliver 6% to 7% revenue growth for the year, and given the stronger-than-guided first quarter earnings, to achieve 12% earnings growth. We are confident in the strength of the company we built and our ability to drive above-market profitable growth over the long term. Accordingly, with the recent equity market volatility, we capitalized on the opportunity to create value for shareholders by accelerating our share repurchases in the past two quarters. Now let's take a deeper look into our first quarter results. We delivered another quarter of record orders, which grew 22% to $1.5 billion. This outpaced record first quarter revenue, which grew 6% to $1.25 billion. We achieved gross margin of 66%, operating margin of 28% and EPS of $1.65, all of which were first quarter records. Although supply constraints continue to moderate revenue, Keysight's consistent execution and focus on growth initiatives across the 5G ecosystem, automotive and software position us well to capitalize on a robust demand environment. The Electronics Industrial Solutions Group delivered double-digit order and revenue growth for the sixth consecutive quarter. Record orders were driven by strong demand for automotive and semiconductor solutions, as well as broad general electronic applications. Our differentiated solutions position us well to win in the fast-expanding automotive market, where we achieved all-time record orders and record first quarter revenue. Orders grew well over 50% in the quarter and exceeded 50% growth over the past year. Manufacturing capacity continued to expand to meet pent-up demand, and the EV and AV technology investment accelerated. This happened particularly in Europe and China, where EV market share of total car sales in 2021 increased to 19% and 15%, respectively. Demand remains strong from leading manufacturers for both EV and AV production test solutions, power semiconductors, automotive electronics and RF and millimeter wave wireless test. Keysight continues to engage with global industry leaders such as BMW, Sony Semiconductor Solutions and Proventia to enable next-generation technologies across the automotive R&D and production workflows. Strong demand for our semiconductor solutions drove double-digit order and revenue growth and resulted in record orders and record first quarter revenue. Investments remain high in advanced semiconductor technologies and capacity expansion to serve a broad set of applications, including silicon-rich smartphones, high-performance computing, IoT and autos. In general electronics, we achieved record orders with double-digit growth across all regions driven by investment in manufacturing and device development for consumer and industrial IoT, digital health, connectivity and remote monitoring. Turning to the Communications Solutions Group. We delivered record first quarter orders and revenue with double-digit order growth across all regions. Commercial communications orders achieved the second-highest quarter on record with double-digit order and revenue growth in the Americas and Europe. We see continued strength in 400G and 800G Ethernet solutions for enterprise and service provider customers, as well as increasing demand for terabit communication solutions. Driven by the ongoing investment in data center and cloud applications, orders for Keysight's differentiated, high-performance, real-time oscilloscopes grew triple digits this quarter. Keysight's leadership in 5G Release 16 applications, broad test case coverage and our strategic role in O-RAN are enabling our expansion across the broad communications ecosystem. Our 5G customer base is growing as deployments begin to scale, and we are enabling disruptive technologies with key industry players, such as Qualcomm to demonstrate 3.5-gigabit uplink data throughput, Chunghwa Telecom in Taiwan to accelerate verification of O-RAN connectivity, KT Corporation in South Korea to verify advanced 5G new radio features and LG Electronics to demonstrate 6G radio frequencies. Investments remain strong in 5G wireless R&D and manufacturing, as well as networking as market expansion transitions to devices, network equipment and the aerospace, defense vertical. In aerospace, defense and government, double-digit order growth was driven by demand for signal monitoring, cyber, space and satellite, as well as 5G and 6G applications. Demand was particularly strong in Asia Pacific and Europe. As design, test and measurement solutions grow in complexity, software and services are an increasingly more important differentiator for Keysight. Combined, they represented more than a third of total revenue this quarter, increasing recurring revenue and contributing to the resiliency and predictability of our business. In summary, demand remains strong for Keysight's software-centric portfolio of differentiated solutions across all of our end markets and regions. Since the pandemic began in 2020, Keysight has been focused on supporting our customers and delivering on our commitments. We have implemented new sourcing strategies and increased partner engagement to improve supply chain flexibility, diversification and resilience. While fully focused on our near-term priorities, we continue to work toward a long-term sustainable vision for the company and for the communities in which we operate. The Keysight leadership model drives us to deliver business value through ethical, environmentally sustainable and socially responsible operations. Corporate social responsibility is an enabling value of the KLM, and we are proud to have been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the third year in a row. Keysight's inclusion exemplifies the company's continued commitment to building a better planet. This includes ambitious targets that support several UN Sustainable Development Goals, such as our commitment to achieve net-zero emissions in our company operations by fiscal year 2040, 10 years ahead of the Paris Agreement goal of 2050. As we accelerate innovation to connect and secure the world, we are better positioned than ever to deliver value to our customers, shareholders and employees. Now I will turn it over to Neil to discuss our financial performance and outlook in more detail.Neil Dougherty -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Ron, and hello, everyone. Q1 was a great start to fiscal 2022, and our full year outlook exemplifies Keysight's ability to deliver on our commitments. In the first quarter of 2022, we delivered revenue of $1.250 billion, which was above the high end of our guidance range and grew 6% or 7% on a core basis. As expected, supply chain constraints continue to temper revenue results. We delivered a record $1.495 billion in orders, up 22% or 23% on a core basis. We ended the quarter with over $2.3 billion in backlog. Turning to our operational results for Q1. We reported gross margin of 66% and operating expenses of $473 million, resulting in an operating margin of 28%. We achieved net income of $305 million and delivered $1.65 in earnings per share, which was above the high end of our guidance. Our weighted average share count for the quarter was 184 million shares. Moving to the performance of our segments. Our Communications Solutions Group generated record revenue of $878 million, up 3% on both the reported and core basis. CSG delivered record gross margin of 67% and operating margin of 27%. In Q1, commercial communications generated revenue of $584 million, up 5%, with double-digit revenue growth in the Americas and Europe driven by continued investments in 5G, O-RAN adoption, 400-gigabit, 800-gigabit and terabit R&D and wireline applications. Aerospace, defense and government revenue of $294 million was flat versus a strong prior year compare. Solid growth in Asia Pacific was offset by supply chain constraints that impacted revenue in the Americas and Europe. This was our fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit order growth in aerospace, defense and government, and the funnel remains strong for this end market. The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group generated first quarter revenue of $372 million, up 13% or 15% on a core basis, driven by strong revenue growth in semiconductor and automotive. EISG reported gross margin of 63% and operating margin of 31%. Moving to the balance sheet and cash flow. We ended our first quarter with $2 billion in cash and cash equivalents, generated cash flow from operations of $224 million and free cash flow of $182 million or 15% of revenue. Under the new share repurchase authorization announced in November of last year, we have acquired 1.13 million shares in the quarter at an average price of $182.19 for a total consideration of $206 million. Now turning to our outlook and guidance. Demand remains strong for Keysight Solutions. However, supply constraints continue to moderate shipments. We expect second quarter 2022 revenue to be in the range of $1.290 billion to $1.310 billion and Q2 earnings per share to be in the range of $1.63 to $1.69 based on a weighted diluted share count of approximately 183 million shares. Assuming a loosening of the supply situation in the second half, we continue to expect full year revenue growth to be in the range of 6% to 7% while delivering 12% earnings growth. The raised EPS growth expectation reflects ours higher-than-expected Q1 earnings. In closing, the demand environment remains strong across our end markets and regions. With a record backlog position and a strong track record of operational excellence, we are confident in our ability to meet our customer commitments and continue to deliver profitable above-market growth going forward. With that, I will now turn it back to Jason for the Q&A.Jason Kary -- Vice President, Treasurer, and Investor Relations Thank you, Neil. Elliott, will you please go ahead and give the instructions for the Q&A? 