  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Holly, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome you to the Ford Motor Company second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Lynn Antipas Tyson, executive director of investor relations. Lynn, I hand it to you.Lynn Antipas Tyson -- Executive Director, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Holly. Welcome to Ford Motor Company's second-quarter 2021 earnings call. With me today are Jim Farley, our president and CEO; and John Lawler, our chief financial officer. Also joining us for Q&A is Marion Harris, CEO of Ford Credit. Today's discussions include some non-GAAP references. These are reconciled to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measures in the appendix of our earnings deck. You can find the deck along with the rest of our earnings materials as well as content from our Capital Markets Day at shareholder.ford.com.Today's discussion also includes forward-looking statements about our expectations. Actual results may differ from those stated. The most significant factors that could cause actual results to differ are included on Page 21. Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons are year over year. Company EBIT, EPS, and free cash flow are on an adjusted basis, and product mix is volume-weighted. A quick update on our upcoming IR events. On Monday, August 2, Barclays will host a fireside chat with John Lawler and Lisa Drake, our chief operating officer for North America. On Tuesday, August 3, Jefferies will host a virtual fireside chat with Alex Purdy, our director for business operations for enterprise connectivity.

 



 And on August 11, JPMorgan will host a virtual fireside chat with Hau Thai-Tang, our chief product platform, and operations officer. Now I'll turn the call over to Jim Farley. Jim Farley -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Lynn. Hello, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. Early in the second quarter two months ago, we detailed our strategy for the future of Ford. Put simply, our Ford+ plan is focused on two things: really distinctive products that only Ford could do; and an always-on relationship and experience for our customers that get better and better over time. We're building on our foundational strengths, our iconic products, the uniquely appealing vehicles, our manufacturing excellence, and the industry's best captive finance company, but we're now adding new capabilities and new talents and we're investing in new businesses that will accelerate our value we create for customers and our investors. We're committed to delivering a richer experience for our Ford and Lincoln customers, one that improves over time with things like our over-the-air software upgrades, data-driven experiences, productivity and uptime services for our critical commercial customers, charging software, and a lot more. Ford+ also means introducing the industry's most compelling high-volume electric vehicle lineup and investing the capital and human resources required to design and build world-class batteries and electric powertrain components. And with Argo AI, we're well-positioned to launch an autonomous people and goods delivery business with significant future growth potential.

 



 But fundamental to transforming Ford is to further strengthen our auto operations while we're also expanding our addressable market. Our commitment is to earn your confidence with strong execution quarter after quarter, year after year, delivering solid returns regardless of the challenges that we face with external environment like we did in the second quarter. Despite the many headwinds from the semiconductor shortage, some of which were unique to Ford, our team skillfully managed our business and we generated a positive EBIT. And I can tell you that this outcome was far from certain at the beginning of the quarter. It required intense focus from our team on cost, pricing, and mix. The primary advantage we have right now is the strength of our product portfolio, and it's about to get a lot stronger. We stopped making me-too products in declining segments a few years ago, and we unleashed our product development team to create emotional and distinctive products that only can come from Ford. The Mustang Mach-E, which is already the second best-selling electric SUV in the United States, was recently named Car and Driver Electric Vehicle of the Year after rigorous testing against 10 other great EVs, including the Tesla Model Y Performance, the Porsche Taycan, and the Audi e-tron. The demand for our first round of high-volume EVs clearly has exceeded our most optimistic projections. The reservations for the F-150 Lightning have now climbed well past 120,000 units, and 75% of those customers are new to Ford. We are now working around the clock to break constraints and increase our manufacturing capacity for these red-hot, new battery electric vehicles. We're working with LG Chem, SKI Innovation to increase our annual battery capacity for the Mustang Mach-E by 70%, and we're taking similar actions ahead of the launches of the E-Transit later this year and the F-150 Lightning early next year. The customer and critical reception to our new Bronco lineup has also been remarkable. In June, we started shipments to fulfill 125,000 orders we have for Bronco two- and four-door models, and 70% of those Bronco customers are also new to Ford. And then there's the Maverick, our upcoming hybrid pickup that offers room for five gets 40 miles per gallon in the city and is priced starting at less than $20,000. And customers already recognize the value of this product, and the initial interest to our dealers is more than almost 80,000 orders. Great products alone are not sufficient though to deliver Ford+. Always-on means we are regularly interacting with our customers on things large and small, and we're building new capabilities like connected services to enrich the customer experience and drive reoccurring revenue streams. We developed a proprietary software and hardware stack we call Blue Oval Intelligence to deliver updates to customers' vehicles over the air. Some of our competitors can do it for their entertainment systems. We do it for almost all of our modules in the vehicle. For example, the Mustang Mach-E activation rates, the number of customers who opt in to connected services like FordPass, are now over 95%. We have now updated more than 150,000 vehicles over the year just this year, and we expect this -- to top 600,000 vehicles by year end. And by 2028, we will have 33 million OTA capability vehicles on the road around the world. And we're mining the real-world data from these vehicles real time to better meet our customer needs. To me, this is the most important point. For example, driven by the vehicle data from the Mustang Mach-E and the F-150 already, we've identified $50 million in efficiencies just from warranty cost avoidance and other opportunities. We're also building out our global Ford Pro commercial business, which we expect to grow from $45 billion in 2025 from $27 billion in 2019. Last month, we announced our acquisition of Electriphi to help accelerate electric vehicle fleet adoption by offering those customers the best-scaled depot charging experience for all commercial customers. It's an example of how we're building out Ford Pro now. In mobility, we are now focused on planning and executing a phased deployment of AVs that will lead to large-scale commercialization of Ford's AVs. Last week, as you've seen, we reached the industry-first collaboration between Argo and Lyft to deploy Ford driverless vehicles on the Lyft TNC network. This collaboration will enable commercial deployment at scale and demonstrate Ford and Argo's ability to connect into multiple TNCs, or transportation networks. And on the technology front, Argo -- I'm really excited about this, introduced Argo Lidar, which will help us expand our autonomous services beyond the dense urban areas that most are focused on. This new lidar, designed to be cost-effective and manufacturing at scale, will offer what we believe is the industry's longest distance-sensing range of 400 meters with dark object detection or safe highway driving. Now before John reports on the quarter and our expectations for the rest of the year, let me give you an update on the semiconductor situation. In April, we said we'd expect to lose about 50% of our planned volume in the second quarter, which then implied a loss in adjusted EBIT. In fact, we did better than expected. We leveraged the strong demand to optimize our revenue and profits. We're seeing signs of improvement in the flow of chips now in the third quarter, but the situation remains fluid especially due to the delay in ramp-up of one of our key suppliers, Renesas, that Ford is uniquely exposed to in the first half. Overall, after effectively managing through the first half, we are now spring-loaded for growth in the second half and beyond because of those red-hot products, pent-up demand, and improving chip supply. Navigating these chip constraints has led us to make important permanent changes in our business model at Ford. We are modernizing our go-to-market strategy. What does that mean? We're placing a greater emphasis on build-to-order sales bank, not just low stocks. We have learned that, yes, operating with fewer vehicles on lots is not only possible but it's better for customers, dealers, and Ford. But we're also driving a significant increase in the number of customers configuring and ordering their vehicles online so we have better visibility to real demand using an order bank. This allows us to lower inventories, simplify our incentives and reduce our order complexity and the industrial system's cost. For our customers, upside is that they more quickly get the precise vehicle they want. Now, this isn't theoretical. I hope we get into the Q&A. We're doing it right now as we speak. Relative to the supply chain, we made three notable changes. First, we are no longer relying heavily on a tiered procurement structure for transparency. We are now engaging directly, for example, with the fabs on semiconductors and key points in the supply chain for our critical components, electronic components. With closer relationships and more transparent exchange of information such as technology road maps, we can integrate their know-how into our designs to better align supply and demand. Second, we are providing a longer-term forecast to critical vendors so they can better understand and accommodate our requirements. And third, we are more comprehensively scanning for obstacles in our supply chain. Risk mitigation actions include stockpiling of critical parts like semis, dual sourcing, and design interchangeability in the case of single sources. These changes are all being applied to new technologies as well, including batteries, which are rapidly becoming a larger portion of our bill of material at Ford. Our pending joint venture with SK Innovation, called Blue Oval SK, will produce EV battery cells and arrays, helping us secure supplies of batteries at competitive cost and performance levels really critical, given our demand for our new electric vehicles. And now I'd like to turn it over to John to take us through the results for the quarter and our outlook.John Lawler -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jim. So first, I want to reiterate that everything we do and every decision we are making, including capital allocation, is squarely focused on delivering our Ford+ plan. And you'll see that as I share our key takeaways from the quarter, our full-year outlook, and describe how we are positioned for even a stronger performance heading into 2022. And as Jim said, we delivered better-than-expected results, given the semiconductor constraints. Year over year, our automotive business improved across several key financial metrics as we overlapped the industrywide COVID-related manufacturing shutdowns we saw in the second quarter of last year. Now for a more accurate picture of our true trajectory in this present environment, we're focusing more on sequential comparisons, and we think those are more appropriate. While wholesales were down 28% sequentially, our teams optimized for revenue and profit with disciplined incentive spending and mix management. We allocated chips to customer orders, new launches, and our more profitable vehicles. In addition, the strength of our sales order bank gives us confidence in our ability to drive a more balanced performance of wholesales, revenue, and profit in the second half of this year, including sequential improvement in wholesales and share. So let's turn to our results. On a consolidated basis, wholesales and revenue were up 18% and 38% year over year, respectively, and we delivered adjusted EBIT of $1.1 billion with adjusted margin of 4%. Outside of North America, our underlying trajectory continues to improve despite the impact of the semiconductors, and that's driven by more focused product portfolios, geographic footprint as well as lower costs. And Ford Credit continued to deliver strong performance with record quarterly EBT of $1.6 billion, and that's demonstrating why it's a strategic asset and critical to enabling Ford+. And a prime example is through the launch of a new service like Ford Pro FinSimple, which provides bundled financing for commercial vehicles, services, and EV charging. And so it's another example of Ford Credit being a strategic weapon for us. Now turning to the regions. North America posted a 40% sequential decline in wholesales due to the semiconductor shortage. Now as we manage the chip constraints, we've focused our efforts on customer or customers ordering vehicles for future delivery. We exited the second quarter with our U.S. customer sold order bank up more than seven times compared to a year ago. And with new models to come, we are clearly poised for a rebound in North America when the semiconductor supply stabilizes and aligns with demand. On a year-over-year basis, EBIT was up $1.1 billion. Outside of North America, the turnaround of our operations remains on track. In aggregate, EBIT improved $800 million year over year but declined sequentially, mainly driven by Europe where the semiconductor shortage caused wholesale units to drop sequentially by nearly 35%. The transformation in Europe continues as the region capitalizes on strength in commercial vehicles with Ford Pro and a more focused passenger portfolio, including key imports. Europe has stepped up investments in electrification, including $1 billion for a new EV manufacturing center in Cologne, the launch of our E-Transit next spring, and a new, all-electric light commercial vehicle from Romania. In South America, our restructuring is on track. Our lean, derisked, and asset-light business model is focused on our strengths with Ranger, Transit, and key imported vehicles. The region introduced Bronco Sport and Mustang Mach 1 in selected markets and is preparing now for the launch of the new Transit van in the second half of this year. In China, we continued to see improvement in key areas of focus, including Lincoln, commercial vehicles, electric vehicles, and with our portfolio of near-premium Ford vehicles. Lincoln attained its highest-ever quarterly sales, was profitable, and also captured the No. 1 spot in J.D. Power's luxury sales satisfaction ranking, unseating Audi, which had held the position for 11 years. In addition, 97% of Lincoln's volume is now produced locally, and commercial vehicles now account for 52% of overall sales mix in China. And finally, we are readying for the launch of the localized Mustang Mach-E later this year. Our International Markets Group, we delivered another solid quarter, leveraging its portfolio strengths with Ranger pickups and Everest SUV. And we're continuing to assess our business in India, and we'll have more to say on this later this year. Companywide, second-quarter adjusted free cash flow was negative $5.1 billion. As expected, semiconductor-related volume losses had a greater impact on the free cash flow than EBIT because of adverse working capital and timing differences related to customer allowances for marketing incentives. Ford Credit did provide a partial offset with distributions of $4 billion in the quarter. Now we expect working capital and these timing differences to normalize over time as the semiconductor supply is restored. Cash and liquidity remained very strong, ending the quarter at $25.1 billion and $41 billion, respectively. The strength of our balance sheet provides significant financial flexibility to navigate periods of stress while also continuing to invest in growth in our Ford+ plan. So now let's turn to the outlook. Based on the underlying strength of our business and present assessment of the semiconductor supplies through the second half, along with other factors, we have increased our outlook for full-year adjusted EBIT to between $9 billion to $10 billion. Now, this assumes about a 30% sequential increase in volume in our second half versus our first half, which is supported by the anticipated improvement in the supply of semiconductors. Our guidance implies we are -- we expect second-half adjusted EBIT to be lower than the first half of the year. And so we provided a bridge to help with this, and we've included that on Page 19 of our earnings presentation. So let me provide a little bit of color around this. Relative to tailwinds, we expect about $3 billion to $4 billion in favorable market factors, net of an increase in volume-related production costs for the higher volumes. Headwinds. Right? We see headwinds coming through, and we see pressure on contribution margin. We expect commodities to be up almost $2 billion half over half. Warranty costs are expected to be higher in the second half, up about $500 million, though we still expect full-year warranty expense to be down year over year. Relative to structural costs, about $1.5 billion in investments in modernization, consistent with what we laid out in May, including customer experiences, connectivity, IT, new product launches. Looking at Ford Credit, based on current market dynamics, we expect Ford Credit to decline by about $1 billion as auction values begin to normalize, and we also have a non-repeat of reserve releases that we had in the first half. And lastly, we also have the nonrecurrence of the $900 million non-cash gain on Rivian we booked in the first quarter. And it's important to note that this gain also impacts our run rate heading into 2022. We are also increasing our full-year adjusted free cash flow target to $4 billion to $5 billion, supported by expected favorable working capital in the second half as production increases from an anticipated improvement in chip availability. Now as our operating results improve, so does our cash conversion, which we continue to target in the range of 50% to 60%. And the strength in cash conversion and our balance sheet provides us ample financial flexibility to invest in growth, including in EVs, Ford Pro, our connected services, and mobility. Now looking toward 2022, we are confident in the underlying trajectory of our business and excited to see the momentum continue as we leverage one of the strongest product lineups in our history and continue to implement our Ford+ plan. We're on a new path at Ford. We've got a plan, the resources, and the resolve to build a better business. So now I'll hand it over to the operator to open it up for questions. 