  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to Zebra's fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. Please also note, today's event is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the floor over to Mike Steele, vice president of investor relations. Sir, you may begin.Mike Steele -- Vice President of Investor Relations Good morning and welcome to Zebra's fourth quarter conference call. This presentation is being simulcast on our website at investors.zebra.com and will be archived there for at least one year. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions, and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially due to factors discussed in our SEC filings. During this call, we will reference non-GAAP financial measures as we describe our business performance. You can find reconciliations at the end of the slide presentation and in today's earnings press release. Throughout this presentation, unless otherwise indicated, our references to sales growth are year over year on a constant currency basis and exclude results from recently acquired businesses for the 12 months following each acquisition. This presentation will include prepared remarks from Anders Gustafsson, our chief executive officer; and Nathan Winters, our chief financial officer.Anders will begin with our fourth quarter and full year 2021 results. Then Nathan will provide additional detail and financials, and discuss our 2020 two outlook. Anders will conclude with progress made on advancing our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision, along with an updated view of our served market opportunity and revised long-term sales outlook. Following the prepared remarks, Joe Heel, our chief revenue officer, will join us as we take your questions. Now, let's turn to Slide 4 as I hand it over to Anders. Anders Gustafsson -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Our team delivered solid fourth quarter results in an exceptionally challenging supply chain environment. For the quarter, we realized adjusted net sales growth of 12% or 10% on an organic basis; adjusted EBITDA of $319 million, a 4% year-over-year increase; an adjusted EBITDA margin of 21.7%, a 180-basis-point decrease; non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $4.54, a 2% increase from the prior year; and strong free cash flow. Customer demand is stronger than ever for our solutions that digitize and automate workflows. We realized sales growth across all four regions, supported by exceptional strength in mobile computing with particularly strong growth in Asia Pacific and Latin America. Supply chain constraints limited us from fully satisfying our customer demand, particularly for certain data capture and printing offerings. Our teams have been aggressively working to mitigate the impact of the unprecedented industrywide supply chain challenges by securing new sources of supply, utilizing alternative modalities of transportation, and expediting customer shipments. Premium freight costs exceeded our expectations and significantly weighed on gross margin, which was partially offset by higher service and softer margin. We also scaled operating expenses while continuing to invest in initiatives to drive sustainable, profitable growth. Our solid fourth quarter performance closed an outstanding full year 2021 in which we generated record sales, EBITDA margin, earnings per share, and free cash flow. With that, I will now turn the call over to Nathan to review our Q4 financial results in more detail and discuss our 2022 outlook.Nathan Winters -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Anders. Let's start with the P&L on Slide 6. In Q4, adjusted net sales increased 11.7%, including the impact of currency and acquisitions; and 10% on an organic basis, reflecting broad-based demand for our solutions. Our asset intelligence and tracking segment, including printing and supplies, grew 3.1% despite significant supply constraints on our printer products and cycling very strong prior year results.Enterprise visibility and mobility segment sales increased 13.2%, driven by exceptional growth in mobile computing. We continue to drive solid growth across services and software with strong service attach rates and expansion of our software offerings. We recognize solid growth in all four regions. North America sales increased 4% with strength in mobile computing, supplies, and services. EMEA sales increased 9%, driven by strong growth in mobile computing. Asia-Pacific sales grew 29% with strength across all major geographies, including China. And in Latin America, sales increased 42%, continuing strong double-digit growth in all major offerings. Adjusted gross margin declined 210 basis points to 45.7% due to unprecedented premium freight costs, partially offset by higher service and softer margins. We will discuss transitory costs, including premium freight, further in a moment. Adjusted operating expenses as a percentage of sales improved 40 basis points as we scaled our cost structure while continuing to prioritize high return investment opportunities in the business. Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA margin was 21.7% at 180-basis-point decrease from the prior year period, entirely attributable to lower gross margin from transitory impacts, partially offset by operating expense leverage. We drove non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $4.54, an $0.08 or 1.8% year-over-year increase, which also reflects lower interest expense and a slightly higher tax rate. Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow highlights on Slide 7. In 2021, we generated more than $1 billion of free cash flow for the first time in our history. This was $115 million higher than the prior year, primarily due to increased profitable growth. Our balance sheet remains strong. From a debt leverage perspective, we ended the year at a modest 0.5 times net debt to adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio, which provides us ample flexibility. In 2021, we invested $452 million to acquire antuit, Fetch Robotics, and Adaptive Vision to advance our solutions offerings in retail, manufacturing in the warehouse. In addition, we made $34 million of venture investments in five portfolio companies, $59 million of capital expenditures, $257 million of net debt repayments, and $57 million of share repurchases. On Slide 8, we showed a multi-year impact of transitory costs, primarily related to expedited freight due to supply chain bottlenecks caused by the pandemic, as well as tariffs on China imports. Our team is making heroic efforts to satisfy customer demand. This includes dedicating substantial engineering resources to product redesigns, negotiating long-term supply agreements with new and existing suppliers, shifting virtually all transport to air promotion, and expediting component parts and finished goods to meet customer commitments. Global freight rates have reached record high cost per kilo for all modalities of delivery across our supply chain. In Q4 compared to pre-pandemic rates, we incurred incremental premium freight costs of $67 million, which is higher than we had anticipated in our prior outlook and $58 million higher than the prior year. Partially offsetting those impacts were $4 million of refunds of China import tariffs, which was $8 million less than received in the fourth quarter of 2020. In total, these transitory items had a combined unfavorable gross margin impact of $66 million year over year. I'll discuss our assumptions regarding the 2022 impact of transitory costs in a moment. Let's now turn to our outlook. We entered the year with a strong order backlog and healthy sales pipeline supported by broad-based demand for our solutions. Our expected sales growth of 1% to 3% for the first quarter has been capped by what we can deliver to our customers due to extended lead times and limited availability of component parts. Our outlook assumes an approximately one percentage point additive impact from acquisitions and foreign currency changes. We anticipate Q1 adjusted EBITDA margin to be approximately 20%, which assumes gross margin contraction from the prior year due to unfavorable sales mix and expected premium freight costs of $60 million, which translates to a 340-basis-point unfavorable impact to the prior year period. We also expect increased operating expenses as a percent of sales, primarily due to our entry into multiple expansion markets since last spring and resuming in-person events. We believe total supply chain impacts, including transitory cost and product availability, are peaking in Q1, with recent improvements in freight capacity and better visibility in supplier commitments to component supply into the second quarter. Non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $3.70 to $4. For the full year 2022, we expect adjusted net sales to grow between 3% and 7% with the assumption that supply chain constraints steadily abate throughout the year. This outlook assumes a net neutral impact from acquisitions and foreign currency changes. We anticipate full year 2022 adjusted EBITDA margin between 23% and 24%, which assumes total transitory cost impacts, including premium freight expenses of approximately $140 million to $160 million. This is slightly higher than the impact we realized in 2021. We expect our free cash flow to be at least $900 million for the year. Please reference additional modeling assumptions shown on Slide 9. With that, I will turn the call back to Anders to discuss how we are advancing our enterprise asset intelligence vision and to provide an update on our served market opportunity and long-term growth expectations.Anders Gustafsson -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Nathan. I'm encouraged by the strong demand across our business and the bold actions our teams are taking to navigate the supply chain challenges. Slide 11 illustrates how we digitize and automate the front line of business by leveraging our industry leading portfolio products, software, and services. By transforming workflows with our proven solutions that generate an attractive return on investment, Zebra's customers can effectively address their operational challenges, which have become increasingly complex through the pandemic. Are innovative solutions empower their workforce to do their jobs more efficiently by navigating constant change in near real-time, utilizing insights driven by advanced software capabilities such as prescriptive analytics, intelligent automation, and machine vision. We are raising our long-term organic sales growth expectations to 5% to 7% from our former expectation of 4% to 5%. On Slide 12, we provide a refreshed view of our served markets totaling approximately $30 billion, which are supported by megatrends, including the on-demand economy, asset visibility, mobility and cloud computing, and automation. These trends have become increasingly important to our enterprise customers, and we remain well positioned to meet their needs with our comprehensive solutions. Today, the vast majority of Zebra sales are in our core, which remains vibrant and is now expected to grow 4% to 5%. We have the broadest and deepest offering among the competition and believe that our continued focus in investment will advance our leadership position. Our near adjacencies provide ample opportunity to expand and have a generally higher growth profile than our core. The most promising categories include RFID solutions for use cases that demand the highest level of workforce productivity and inventory accuracy. Smart supplies including dynamic temperature monitoring, as well as the opportunity to equip a broader set of frontline workers with our expanded offering of mobile computers. Beyond our core and near adjacencies are rapid growth expansion opportunities that are transforming workflows across the supply chain. We have entered these areas through organic and inorganic investments over the past 18 months, and they represent a low to mid single digit percentage of Zebra sales. In mid-2021, we launched several fixed industrial scanning and machine vision smart cameras. We also acquired Fetch Robotics to give us the broadest portfolio of autonomous mobile robots in the industry. We have also been building a compelling software suite that optimizes retail execution and demand planning, which includes Reflexis workforce and task management, Zebra Prescriptive Analytics, Workforce Connect, Smart Count, and antuit.ai-powered demand forecasting. Collectively, we are serving an approximately $6 billion market in this exciting expansion areas. We are early on our journey and have the opportunity to extend our capabilities deeper into the areas of machine vision, warehouse automation, and workflow optimization software over time. Now turning to Slide 13. Businesses partner with Zebra to help optimize their end-to-end workflows as they strive to meet the increasing demands of consumers. I would like to highlight several recent key wins across our end markets. A global apparel retailer is deploying a Zebra solution of 32,000 TC52 mobile computers, along with Workforce Connect voice collaboration software and our software solution that transforms mobile computers into workstations on demand. We are enabling this retailer to improve associate productivity and communication in both front of store and distribution center applications, eliminating the need for walkie talkies and full desktop computer workstations. Our mobile computers will also provide the benefit of stable next network connectivity, improved security features, and battery management tools. This competitive takeaway win from a major consumer device provider demonstrates our superior value proposition versus the competition. In another recent win, Zebra's Reflexis workforce management solution has enabled a U.S.-based specialty retailer to optimize scheduling for more than 25,000 employees and provide enhanced self-service reporting and analytics to support accountability and performance. We have extended our relationship with a leading international energy company to empower thousands of convenience store associates in the United Kingdom with a Workforce Connect and Reflexis workforce management applications on their Zebra mobile computers and tablets. Our solution enables the store associates to automate their daily responsibilities, maximizing productivity and streamlining task management and administration. We have expanded our relationship with a European auto manufacturer, augmenting thousands of their Zebra mobile computers with RFID readers to enhance quality control in production lines and allow secure employee system access. We continue to collaborate with this customer to pilot promising new solutions to further optimize their operations. In healthcare, a large hospital system in the southern United States purchased TC52 mobile computers and our Workforce Connect software application to enable mobile access to the medical record systems, as well as facilitate instant communication between nurses and other clinicians. Zebra was selected over competing a consumer device providers because of our reputation for comprehensive enterprise solutions. In closing, we are working diligently to navigate through industrywide supply chain challenges, which limit our ability to fully satisfy strong customer demand in the near term. That said, the pandemic has accelerated trends that have been driving growth in Zebra's vibrant markets, including e-commerce adoption, the need for real-time track-and-trace across the supply chain, and the shift to a more digital healthcare experience. We continue to be very excited about our growth prospects. Now, I'll hand the call back over to Mike.Mike Steele -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Anders. We'll now open the call to Q&A. [Operator instructions] 