  OperatorWelcome to the third quarter 2021 Arista Networks financial results earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded and will be available for replay from the Investor Relations section at the Arista website following this call. Ms. Liz Stein, Arista's director of investor relations. You may begin.Liz Stine -- Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me on today's call are Jayshree Ullal, Arista Networks president and chief executive officer; and Ita Brennan, Arista's chief financial officer. This afternoon, Arista Networks issued a press release announcing the results for its fiscal third quarter ending September 30th, 2021. If you would like a copy of the release, you can access it online at our website. During the course of this conference call, Arista Networks management will make forward-looking statements, including those relating to our financial outlook for the fourth quarter of the 2021 fiscal year, longer-term financial outlook for 2022 and beyond, our total addressable market, and strategy for addressing these market opportunities, the potential impact of COVID-19 on our business, product innovation, the imply of supply -- the impact of supply shortages and manufacturing constraints on our business, including lead times and inventory purchases, and the benefits of acquisitions, which are subject to the risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, specifically in our most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K and which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these statements. These forward-looking statements apply as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call.Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges. We have provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings press release. With that, I will turn the call over to Jayshree. Jayshree Ullal -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Liz, and welcome to your first-earnings experience. Thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon for our third quarter 2021 earnings call. Today's call will be followed by our Virtual Analyst Day at 3:00 p.m. Pacific Standard Time. We delivered record revenues of 748.7 million for the quarter, with record non-GAAP earnings per share of $2.96. Air Care services and software renewals contributed approximately 21.5%. Our non-GAAP gross margins at 64.9% was influenced by enterprise and Cloud Titan momentum. We remain pleased with our healthy customer growth, including record million-dollar customers and new customer logos in our mainstream enterprise. In Q3 2021, Cloud Titans was once again our top vertical, with enterprise being a close second, followed by financials and specialty Cloud providers third, and service providers at fourth place. All verticals contributed to Arista's diversity and growth. International contribution was strong at 25% with the Americas at 75% for the quarter. No earnings call of these days is complete without supply chain commentary. We are clearly in the midst of an acute supply chain crisis with increased prices and long lead times. We are changing our Arista mindset from our historical build to forecast and orders to build to invest doubling our purchase commitments in excess of 2 billion and planning for the next one to two years. Lead times of many components have extended to 50 to 80 weeks with price hikes ranging from 15% to as high as 200% across our entire supply chain of copper, steel, substrate, printed circuit board, memory, silicon ICs, connectors, freight, and labor. Arista has been deliberate and thoughtful about price increases so far, as we shared with you but we have recently announced increased list prices effective November 4th, 2021, averaging about approximately 10% to offset the very high escalating costs.

 



 Customer demand remains strong for Arista products as we're gaining market share in 100- 200- and 400-gig high-performance switching according to market analysts. We truly appreciate our customers and partners for their patience and understanding as we navigate these turbulent times throughout 2022 as well. Recently, we have witnessed the progress of our routing products with key customers and the acceptance of our routing edge use cases. Similar to Cloud Titans, carriers and large enterprise customers are deriving immense benefit from Arista's EOS and rich routing features. We deliver simplification and unified service delivery with the support of segment routing with traffic engineering and EVPN as well as rapid failover techniques. This provides that ideal alternative to today's complex legacy router deployments with much more improved total cost of ownership and capex benefits. Since its founding, Arista has pioneered the transformation from router to routing with our lease Spine, R-Series platform. Arista's third-generation R3 series based on EOS-4.26 delivers three new edge use cases this year. The first one is a multi-Cloud edge that brings provisioning and programmatic traffic steering. The second is a metro edge for single protocol adoption across multiple edge VPN services into the Metro Ethernet fabric. And the final use case is a 5G RAN edge with the 5G edge disaggregating the radio area network with scale-out routing. Continuing our theme of big bet wins, I would like to highlight worldwide examples of our strength with specific customer names in routing and campus adjacencies. The first customer was CD LAN an international service provider in Italy that adopted Arista for their routing transformation. Arista solution led them to take a fresh approach to routing for next-generation edge and backbone, reducing the complexity of protocols. This delivered L2 and L3 services with EVPN on a segment routed backbone, along with modern operations and superior services and experience. The second customer was Connecticut Education Network, who standardized on Arista's R-Series with Arista EOS being instrumental in their transformation of the MPLS VPN Edge providing 100-gig density in with rough scale, stability, and menaability. The advantages in the relationship with CEN across service and engineering affirm their decision to choose us at Arista. Peering between ISPs using 100-gig and MPLS PEs to replace their large legacy routers. The third customer is Zenlayer, an international customer in Asia Pacific, who is delighted to partner with Arista and build our next-generation Cloud edge and routed backbone for the infrastructure growth. Arista's rich routing stack brought programmatic traffic engineering at the core of the segment routing without sacrificing quality performance and reliability. And finally, in the campus, we continue to make progress toward our goal of doubling to 200 million in the cognitive campus in 2021. An example of this is an international customer win in Australia, the Australian Securities Exchange, providing cognitive campus for its corporate sites in Sydney, Melbourne, and Perth. The new campus network is based on Arista's wired platform to 720 XP Series, and it's built on a multiyear relationship we have built between Arista and ASX utilizing EOS and CloudVision for real-time insights across all devices in trading and nontrading environments. In summary, Arista's customers strongly endorse our client-to-Cloud strategy to unify silo data sets consistently. We believe we are well-positioned for the next phase of growth in data-driven Cloud networking with proactive platforms, predictive operations, and a prescriptive experience. We look forward to sharing more of this and our vision and our goals with you at our Analyst Day later this afternoon. I will pass it over now to Ita Brennan, our chief financial officer, for financial specifics. Ita?Ita Brennan -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jayshree, and good afternoon. This analysis of our Q3 results and our guidance for Q4 of 2021 is based on non-GAAP and excludes all non-cash stock-based compensation impacts, certain acquisition-related charges, and other nonrecurring items. A full reconciliation of our selected GAAP to non-GAAP results is provided in our earnings release. Total revenues in Q3 were 748.7 million, up 23.7% year over year and above the upper end of our guidance of 725 to 745 million. Shipments remained constrained in the period as we continued to carefully navigate industrywide supply chain shortages and COVID-related disruptions. Services and subscription software contributed approximately 21.5% of revenue in the third quarter, down from 22.3% in Q2. International revenues for the quarter came in at 191 million or 25% of total revenue, down from 27% in the second quarter. The shift in geographical mix on a quarter-over-quarter basis reflects a continued healthy performance from our Cloud Titan and in regional businesses in EMEA with some volatility in our APAC business. Overall gross margin in Q3 was 64.9% at the upper end of our guidance range of approximately 63 to 65%. We continue to recognize some incremental supply chain costs in the period, and these were offset by a healthy mix of revenue from our enterprise customers in the quarter. Operating expenses for the quarter were 192.4 million or 25.7% of revenue, up from last quarter at 189.8 million. R&D spending commented at 125 million or 16.7% of revenue, up from last quarter at 119.6 million. This reflected increased headcount and employee-related costs and higher new product introduction spending in the period. Sales and marketing expense was 55.8 million or 7.4% of revenue, down from 57.9 million last quarter with lower demo and other variable expenses in the period. As a reminder, we continue to benefit from lower COVID-related travel and marketing expenses. Our G&A costs came in at 11.6 million or 1.5% of revenue, down slightly from last quarter, but in line with normal quarterly seasonality. Our operating income for the quarter was 293.7 million or 39.2% of revenue. Other income and expense for the quarter was a favorable 1.3 million, and our effective tax rate was approximately 19.7%. This resulted in net income for the quarter of 236.9 million or 31.6% of revenue. Our diluted share number was 79.9 million shares, resulting in a diluted earnings per share number for the quarter of $2.96, up approximately 22.5% from the prior year. Now turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents, and investments ended the quarter at approximately 3.4 billion. We repurchased 134 million of our common stock during the third quarter at an average price of $357 per share. As a recap, at the end of Q3 2021, we had repurchased $897 million or 3.9 million shares against our board authorization to repurchase $1 billion worth of shares over three years beginning in April 2019. In October 2021, Arista's board of directors increased the authorization by adding an additional $1 billion to the repurchase amount. The actual timing and amount of future repurchases will be dependent on market and business conditions, business requirements, stock price, acquisition opportunities, and other factors. Now turning to the operating cash performance for the third quarter. We generated 273 million of cash from operations in the period, reflecting strong net income performance and continued investments in inventory and supply chain. DSOs came in at 49 days, up slightly from 47 in Q2, reflecting the linearity of billings in the period. Inventory turns were 1.7 times, consistent with last quarter. Inventory increased to 575.7 million in the quarter, up from 543.2 million in the prior period as we continued to buffer certain components and products. Our purchase commitments number for the quarter increased to 2.1 billion, up from 1.1 billion in Q2. This reflects a combination of increased lead times for many components and improved demand visibility. We continue to prioritize newer early life cycle products for inclusion in this strategy to help mitigate the risk of obsolescence. Our total deferred revenue balance was 800 million, up from 746 million in Q2. The majority of the deferred revenue balance is services related and directly linked to the timing and term of service contracts, which can vary on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Approximately 113 million of the balance, up from 90 million last quarter represents product deferred revenue largely related to acceptance clauses for new products, most recently with our larger Cloud Titan customers. As a reminder, we are currently in a period of significant new product introductions, combined with a healthy new customer acquisition rate and expanded use cases with existing customers. These trends in conjunction with reduced levels of upfront in-person testing have resulted in increased customer-specific acceptance clauses and higher product deferred revenue amounts. Accounts payable days were 47 days, down from 54 days in Q2, reflecting the timing of inventory receipts and payments. Capital expenditures for the quarter were 45.9 million, including approximately 40 million of capex related to the purchase of land to construct a new data center and hardware engineering building in Santa Clara. We'll provide more details on this project over coming quarters. Now turning to our guidance for the fourth quarter and beyond. As outlined in our guidance, we now expect to achieve year-over-year revenue growth for the full year 2021 of approximately 25%. This reflects continued healthy demand across all market sectors, tempered by the impact of the difficult supply environment. On the gross margin front, industry supply constraints and elevated logistics costs continue to pressure gross margins, with customer price increases as a potential offset. Based on our current outlook, we continue to reiterate our overall gross margin outlook of 63 to 65%, with customer mix remaining the key driver of volatility on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Turning to spending and investments. We remain committed to growing our investments in R&D to support innovation across the business and sales and marketing to support our go-to-market expansion. Finally, we also announced today that Arista's board of directors has approved a four-for-one stock split. Each Arista shareholder of record at the close of business on November 11, 2021, will receive three additional shares for every share held and trading will begin on a split-adjusted basis on November 18th, 2021. We thought this as a backdrop, our guidance for the fourth quarter, which is based on non-GAAP results and excludes any non-cash stock-based compensation impacts and other nonrecurring items is as follows: revenues of approximately 775 to 795 million; gross margins of 63 to 65%; operating margin of approximately 37%. Our effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 20.5% with diluted shares on a pre-split basis of approximately 80 million shares. I will now turn the call back to Liz. Liz?Liz Stine -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, Ita. We are now going to move to the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. [Operator instructions] Operator, take it away. 