
OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Grainger First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the conference over to our host, Irene Holman, Vice President of Investor Relations. Thank you. You may beginIrene Holman -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Good morning. Welcome to Grainger's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. With me are D.G. Macpherson, Chairman and CEO; and Dee Merriwether, Senior Vice President and CFO. As a reminder, some of our comments today may include forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially as a result of various risks and uncertainties and including those detailed in our SEC filings.Reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures and their corresponding GAAP measures are found in the tables at the end of this slide presentation and in our Q1 earnings release, both of which are available on our IR website. This morning's call will focus on adjusted results, which exclude restructuring and other items that are outlined in our earnings release.Now I'll turn it over to D.G.D.G. Macpherson -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Irene. Good morning, and thank you for joining us. Today, I'll provide a brief overview of our first quarter results, key initiatives and encouraging signs for our business as the economy recovers. Of note, this will be our first quarter with results aligned to our two new reportable segments. Also, as MonotaRO, our majority-owned subsidiary, is a publicly traded company on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, we have now aligned the timing of our earnings releases. I am very proud of the way the Grainger team has continued to serve our customers through the recovery and has addressed new challenges as they arise. We are supporting many customers through vaccination deployment, including pharmacies and other large sites.Recently, we partnered with the State University Medical Center, the National Guard and the Department of Health to support a mass vaccination site. We outfitted the site with important pandemic-related products like safety equipment as well as more traditional MRO product needed to support the operation, like power and extension cords, lighting and traffic columns. As it ramped up, this site has been able to facilitate thousands of vaccination today. We're seeing vaccination distribution progressing around the world, albeit at different speeds. In the U.S., as more of the population gets vaccinated, we're seeing many customers return to their normal operations and purchasing patterns. This is evident as our non-pandemic sales continue to return to normal levels and as sales in most end markets grow sequentially. In the U.K., we're seeing business activity rise.In Canada, slower vaccine distribution and potential shutdowns are slowing the business recovery. We're also seeing a modestly slower recovery in Japan. No matter what stage of the recovery our customers are in, our relationships with them are very strong, given our support of their operations over the past year. Part of being there for our customers meant having the products they needed when they needed it. To bring this to life, at this time last year, when customers needed hand sanitizer, we sold them 55 gallon drums and they were filling their own containers. As supply constraints eased, customers reverted back to purchasing more normal PPE SKUs and far fewer 55 gallon drums. As I've said before, we took calculated risks in procuring pandemic products and reasonable alternatives, especially in the second quarter of 2020.As the pandemic progressed and market dynamics changed, we had to revalue some of our inventory in Q4 and again in Q1. We anticipate further price deterioration on some of these noncore alternative pandemic products. While our profitability on these products including all potential writedowns was below normal, supporting our customers by taking these risks was the right thing to do. We improved relationships with our existing customers, developed new repeat business and delivered strong incremental growth at lower but still profitable margins. On last quarter's call, we shared our first quarter expectations. As it relates to revenue in the first quarter, all of our businesses surpassed our outlook. We expected first quarter company GP to be down 150 to 200 basis points versus prior year, and our actual results fell within this stated range.

 



Excluding the inventory adjustments, our U.S. GP was up versus prior year, giving us further confidence in the path forward. Based on our strong results and improving economic trends, we are providing full year guidance, which we will discuss in a few minutes. Within our High-Touch Solutions segment, we continue to make progress on our key initiatives across geographies. The U.S. has seen positive signs of economic recovery with growth of non-pandemic sales in virtually all segments. The exception is healthcare, which has very high pandemic-fueled comps. Gross margins are returning to pre-pandemic levels in the U.S., net of inventory adjustments.In Canada, the path to recovery is slower as they struggle to get the virus under control. Despite this, Grainger Canada achieved its revenue and margin targets in the first quarter. The Endless Assortment segment grew over 27% as we execute the playbook and gain momentum with our strategy. The team continues to add SKUs beyond traditional MRO products, which helps grow web traffic, our continued marketing efforts and more targeted discounting strategies are working well in driving operating margin expansion at Zoro. Also, we are gaining real traction with new customer acquisition at both Zoro, MonotaRO.Finally, I'm excited to announce that MonotaRO has opened its newest distribution center in Ibaraki, Japan, which will allow the business to stock additional high-demand products locally. Shifting to the financial results. We achieved organic daily sales growth of 5.9% for the total company on a constant currency basis. In the U.S., we started to lap the volatility of 2020. And in the first quarter of 2021, we drove approximately 250 basis points of market outgrowth. To normalize for all the volatility, we looked at a two-year average share gain, which we believe is a more reasonable measure of our growth. Using this, we averaged 475 basis points of annual market outgrowth from 2019 to 2021. We anticipate showing both measures going forward.Endless Assortment had strong performance in the quarter with 27.4% daily sales growth. For the total company, we delivered operating margin of 11.6%, with 210 basis points in adjusted SG&A leverage more than offsetting the anticipated GP pressure from pandemic inventory adjustments. To be clear, we expect to sell through the remainder of these noncore pandemic products and complete any potential market-driven inventory adjustments by the end of Q2. Finally, we generated $294 million in operating cash flow, returned $256 million to shareholders through dividends and buybacks and maintained strong ROIC of 30.3%. All in all, we are very pleased with this performance and our trajectory.And with that, I'll turn it over to Dee to take us through our first quarter results. Dee?Deidra C. Merriwether -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, D.G. As we move to our new reportable segment, you will continue to see a total company slide, then a familiar four line P&L for both High-Touch Solutions North America and Endless Assortment. We'll also continue to provide transparency into the U.S., Canada, MonotaRO and the Zoro U.S. business. As we lap the pandemic, we will continue to provide pandemic-related data to clarify our results, especially for the U.S. Turning to our quarterly results. Organic daily sales, which adjusts for the divestitures of Fabory in China finished up 7% and 5.9% on a constant currency basis, underpinned by growth in both segments. Note that we have one less selling day in Q1 2021 versus Q1 2020. At the total company level, GP was down 190 basis points.A 180 basis points of this was driven by pandemic-fueled inventory adjustments in the U.S., consistent with what we shared in our Q4 2020 earnings call. We anticipated the need for adjustments. As D.G. shared, we expect to complete any potential market-driven inventory adjustments by the end of the second quarter, and we estimate the amount will be similar to or lower than Q1. This expectation has been factored into our GP ramp as well as our 2021 guidance. Endless Assortment expanded gross margins overall, driven by continued improvement at Zoro. While the mix impact of growing these businesses is dilutive to company gross margin, it drives incremental gross profit and earnings dollars and is an important driver for company performance.SG&A of $735 million was favorable by $43 million year-over-year, in line with our expectations shared last quarter. We captured 210 basis points of SG&A leverage in the period through continued proven cost control in the High-Touch Solutions segment and strong expense leverage in Endless Assortment. This resulted in total company operating margin of 11.6%, up 20 basis points over last year. The business continues to produce robust cash flow with operating cash flow of $294 million, 124% of net adjusted earnings and free cash flow of $221 million. We also returned $175 million back to shareholders through repurchases and $81 million of dividends in the period.Turning to our High-Touch Solutions segment. Daily sales increased 3.4% compared to the first quarter of 2020. We started to lap the pandemic sales spike in mid-February, resulting in more challenging comparisons. In the U.S., daily sales were up 3.5%. In Canada, daily sales were up 3.3% in U.S. dollars, however, still down 2.8% in local days and local currency. Canada's decline was primarily driven by pandemic disruptions, most notably with our natural resource customer. As we diversified beyond natural resources, we are seeing improvements in our targeted end markets, including healthcare, higher education and manufacturing.For the segment, GP finished the quarter at 37.4%, a sequential improvement of 30 basis points versus Q4 2020 and down 230 basis points versus the prior year. The year-over-year decline was due to the inventory adjustments in the U.S. and pandemic mix in Canada. Excluding the adjustment, U.S. GP would have been up versus prior year, which is a better indicator of expected performance moving forward. We have included a chart toward the end of this presentation, which highlights the impact of the pandemic inventory adjustments in the U.S. by quarter. Finally, we continue to gain SG&A leverage with our cost down $24 million, driven by reduced travel expenses and general operating efficiencies in both the U.S. and Canada.Canada expanded operating margins 110 basis points over prior year. As a part of our commitment to providing continued transparency of our U.S. and Canadian businesses, we've included a chart with details in the appendix. Moving on to Slide nine. Looking at pandemic product growth trends. We have started to lap the spike experienced in early 2020. For reference, pandemic product sales grew 41% in the first quarter of 2020. Accordingly, growth rates have eased throughout the quarter this year, growing a very modest 1% year-over-year.Pandemic mix as a percent of the total remained elevated at 25%. As a comparison point, mix was 19% in 2019 and rose to 28% for the full year of 2020. Most importantly, though, on the non-pandemic side, things continue to improve. We started to see year-over-year sales growth in non-pandemic product sales in March of this year, with daily sales dollars increasing sequentially each month during the quarter, with April ending up roughly 36%, the highest growth to date in 2021. This is a very encouraging sign that trends, especially for customer business activities, are beginning to revert to more normal levels.Looking at share gain on Slide 10. We estimate the U.S. MRO market grew between 0.5% to 1.5% in the first quarter, showing continued improvement as the economy recovers. We knew there will be tremendous noise in measuring share gains throughout 2021, given the extreme volatility of the prior year. Our 2020 share gain was inflated due to the pandemic. Correspondingly, our 2021 share gain will be muted as we lap the unusual sales spikes from non-repeat orders. We outgrew the market by roughly 250 basis points in the quarter as we lapped the pandemic sales spike. To eliminate the noise and better understand our market outgrowth, we've also provided a two-year average share gain metric.While imperfect, it does normalize activity across the two-year period and provides a more reasonable view into our share gains since the end of 2019. The two-year average was approximately 475 basis points. Each quarter, we plan to share both numbers. We think this will be especially helpful in the second quarter given the extreme volatility. We remain confident in our ability to serve new and existing customers during these challenging times and to produce 300 to 400 basis points of sustainable outgrowth in our U.S. High-Touch Solutions business.Moving to our Endless Assortment segment. Daily sales increased 27.4% or 23.3% on a constant currency basis, driven by new customer acquisition at both Zoro and MonotaRO as well as MonotaRO's continued pursuit of large enterprise customers in Japan. I will share some of our key growth metrics to provide further color into how we think about these businesses. GP expanded 35 basis points year-over-year, driven by Zoro's improved discounting strategies. Operating margins expanded 185 basis points due primarily to substantial SG&A leverage at Zoro. Moving to Slide 12. We have provided further transparency on the results of both businesses.As you're aware, MonotaRO is a public company, and as such, MonotaRO follows Japanese generally accounted -- accepted accounting principles, or JGAAP, which differs from U.S. GAAP. In Grainger's consolidated results, we translate MonotaRO financials into U.S. dollars and U.S. GAAP. In addition, we continue to report MonotaRO's results one month in arrears. As a result, the numbers we disclosed will differ somewhat from MonotaRO's public statements. In local currency and using Japan's local selling days, we occasionally differ from U.S. -- which occasionally differ from U.S. selling days. MonotaRO's daily sales grew 25.5% with GP finishing the quarter at 26.5%, 10 basis points below prior year.Operating margin expanded 30 basis points to 12%. This is a very strong quarter for MonotaRO. We're excited for the new distribution center that will allow them to stock many of their fastest moving items locally. They also continue to make enhancements in both product information and order management systems, helping to improve the customer search experience and delivery speed, preparing them for the future. Switching to Zoro U.S., March is our strongest average daily sales month since Zoro's inception in 2010, with daily sales up 15.2%, driven by strong customer acquisition. In addition, we drove solid SG&A leverage, resulting in 370 basis points of operating margin expansion. I'd like to spend a minute on the metrics we are using to measure progress on our growth initiatives for both Zoro and MonotaRO.On the left side of the chart, we've listed total registered users for both businesses. This is a long-standing metric that MonotaRO has shared externally. Growing our registered user base is an important driver of top line performance. And as you can see, both businesses have shown tremendous progress. Moving to the right side, Zoro is aggressively adding SKUs to the portfolio. Having an expansive assortment is a key factor to Zoro's customer acquisition and growth strategy. As of Q1 2021, we had a total of 6.7 million SKUs available online. We are excited by our robust pipeline and targeting to reach 10 million total SKUs by 2024.Before I discuss our full year 2021 guidance, I'd like to first provide additional color on the current quarter to help you understand what we expect as the economy recovers and our business performance improves. From a sales perspective, our preliminary results for April are strong. As last April was our softest sales month of the year, we expect to grow -- we expect our growth to moderate in May and June and to end the second quarter up between 14% and 16% on a daily organic basis.Note that our reported revenue growth will be about 280 basis points lower as Fabory in China, both of those businesses were divested after June of 2020. We expect Q2 company GP to be roughly flat on a sequential basis, which implies down about 30 basis points year-over-year. The pandemic impacts, including inventory adjustments and mix continue to improve both sequentially and year-over-year. We're starting to see modest cost inflation, especially on some specific product categories on raw materials such as resin and steel. While the quarters may still be a bit bumpy as the timing of cost increases and price actions do not align perfectly, we expect price/cost spread to be neutral for the year.We're also starting to see general inflation in the freight market, especially in ocean freight rates and LTL shipping. In the second quarter, we expect freight headwind will be muted as we're lapping inflated prior year costs from air shipment. For SG&A, We expect to see cost step up most notably in the second quarter as business activity resumes. Specifically, we expect increases in travel, variable compensation and merit as well as advertising spend as we take advantage of higher returns. With this, we anticipate SG&A between $780 million and $800 million for the second quarter of 2021 and to remain in this general range for the remaining quarters of the year. This will drive leverage for the full year versus both 2020 and 2019. As always, we remain focused on managing costs while continuing to invest in the business for the long term.We've learned a great deal due to the pandemic and don't expect all costs to return to pre-pandemic levels than before. Related to U.S. GP, we still expect to see improved rates of pandemic mix reverts to more normal levels and as we put noncore pandemic and inventory adjustments behind us. Rev rate margins are stabilizing, and we maintain our expectation that we will exit the year with U.S. GP rate as high or higher with Q1 2020 levels. As a reminder, this slide relates to the U.S. business. We choose to highlight it because it represents more than 70% of the total company results and was most heavily impacted by the pandemic.As we become more comfortable with the pace of the economic recovery, primarily in the U.S., coupled with our recent performance, we are providing full year 2021 guidance and we'll provide updates as we move through the year. For the total company, we expect daily sales growth between 8.5% and 11% or 10% and 12.5% organically, driven by strong top line performance in both segments. Within our High-Touch Solutions segment, we anticipate the U.S. business will grow between 7% and 9.5% based on estimated MRO market growth between 6.5% and 9%. This yields one-year market outgrowth of roughly 50 basis points and a two-year average annual outgrowth of 425 basis points.The two-year average normalizes for the extreme sales spikes experienced in 2020 and anchors to 2019. In Canada, the recovery is a bit more choppy than the U.S. with a slower vaccine rollout and recent business shutdowns. With that in mind, we do expect volumes to stabilize as we move through the year. We expect Endless Assortment to continue growing at roughly 20% as the MonotaRO team delivers consistently strong results and as we rapidly add SKUs and continue to drive greater marketing efficiencies at Zoro. From a profitability perspective, total company GP is expected to be between 36.1% and 36.6%, up in 2020 and 70 basis points in 2021.Both the High-Touch Solutions and Endless Assortment segment are expanding gross profit margin. However, there is a roughly 30 basis point dilutive impact to total company GP as a lower-margin Endless Assortment growth outpaces the High-Touch Solutions segment. Both segments are expected to deliver high ROIC and drive GP and earnings dollars growth for the company. For High-Touch Solutions, our GP guidance incorporates the sequential improvement in the back half of the year as we move beyond the unfavorable pandemic impacts and get back to more normal business operations. For the year in the U.S., we expect our price/cost spread to be neutral.Total company operating margins are expected to be between 11.8% and 12.4% and expand between 50 and 115 basis points versus 2020. At the midpoint, we expect our operating lines will be back to 2019 levels. Operating margin improvement are expected to be driven by both GP expansion versus 2020 loans and SG&A leverage as we grow the top line while maintaining cost discipline. These top line and profitability target as well as continued execution of our share purchase program are expected to produce earnings per share between $19 and $20.50. That's growth between 17.5% and 26.5%. Continuing with guidance on Slide 17. In addition to the total company guidance, we wanted to provide some additional color by segment as well as our plans for capital allocation.At the segment level, we expect operating margin expansion in both of our reportable segment with margins in High-Touch Solutions between 13.2% and 13.7% and Endless Assortment ranging between 8.8% and 9.2%. Cromwell represented and Other is expected to reduce operating losses and anticipate closing the year with operating margin down approximately 7%. We expect to cut Cromwell's losses in half and return the business to profitability in the back half of 2022. From a cash flow perspective for the year, we expect operating cash flow to be between $1 billion and $1.2 billion. Our capital expenditures outlook for the year remains between $225 million and $275 million. The large majority of our investment this year includes DC expansion in Japan, keep stock enhancements in the U.S., continued IT investment and a normal level of maintenance capital.We expect the balance of our cash to be used to fund our quarterly dividend and to continue executing against our new share repurchase authorization. For 2021, we are expecting between $600 million and $700 million of share repurchases, which continues to reflect our confidence in successfully executing our strategy and growth initiatives. And I'll close with a highlight on our dividend announced this week, representing 50 consecutive years of dividend increases, a testament to the strength and stability of our business and our commitment to our shareholders.With that, I'll turn it back to D.G. for some closing remarks.D.G. Macpherson -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Dee. I'm proud of the team and our results for the quarter across both segments, and I'm confident in our performance moving forward. As Dee discussed, we expect to end this year having gained strong share and to be in a better profitability position than before the pandemic as we enter into 2022. We remain committed to fulfilling our purpose of keeping the world working as we get through the rest of the pandemic and back to normal operations as well as continuing to execute our strategy so we can achieve this purpose for years to come.And with that, we will open it up for questions.