
OperatorGreetings, and welcome to Align Technologies' Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Shirley Stacy, Vice President of Corporate Communications.Thank you. You may begin.Shirley Stacy -- Vice President of Corporate Communication

 



Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us. Joining me today for our conference call is Joe Hogan, President and CEO; and John Morici, CFO. We issued third quarter 2021 financial results today via GlobeNewswire, which is available on our website at investor.aligntech.com. Today's conference call is being audio webcast and will be archived on our website for approximately one month. A telephone replay will be available today by approximately 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time through 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time on November 10. To access the telephone replay, domestic callers should dial (877) 660-6853 with conference number 13723267, followed by #. International callers should dial (201) 612-7415 with the same conference number.As a reminder, the information provided and discussed today will include forward-looking statements, including statements about Align's future events and product outlook. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve risks and uncertainties that are described in more detail in our most recent periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, available on our website and at sec.gov. Actual results may vary significantly, and Align expressly assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. We have posted historical financial statements, including the corresponding reconciliations on our GAAP -- of our GAAP and non-GAAP reconciliation, if applicable, and our third quarter 2021 conference call slides on our website under quarterly results. Please refer to these files for more detailed information. And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Align Technology's President and CEO, Joe Hogan. Joe?Joseph M. Hogan -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Shirley. Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us. On our call today, I'll provide some highlights in the third quarter, then briefly discuss the performance of our two operating segments, Systems Services and Clear Aligners. John will provide more detail on our financial results and discuss our outlook. Following that, I'll come back and summarize a few key points and open the call to questions. I'm pleased to report strong third quarter results with revenue growth of 38.4% year-over-year on top of a record third quarter last year, driven by the strength across all regions, customer channels and products. For Q3, we shipped to a record 85,500 doctors in the quarter and reached 11.6 million Invisalign patients cumulatively. On a sequential basis, Q3 results reflect continued adoption of iTero scanners and increased utilization of Invisalign Clear Aligners in the Americas and APAC regions as well as the growth in Teen segment, especially in the North American orthodontics channel.

 



Our third quarter revenues reflect a growing confidence of doctors and patients with Invisalign treatment, iTero scanners and exocad software as more doctors discover the benefits of digital treatment and transform their practices with the Align Digital Platform. For Q3, Systems and Services revenues were up 57.3% year-over-year with strong revenue growth across all regions and up 5% sequentially primarily in North America. Q3 results reflect the continued adoption of iTero Element 5D Plus Series, our next-generation scanners and imaging system, which launched earlier this year and feature innovative technology like near-infrared technology, we call NIRI, which aids and detection and monitoring of interproximal caries lesions or cavities above the gingiva without harmful radiation. For Q3, Clear Aligner revenues were up 34.9% year-over-year with strong revenue growth across all regions and across the portfolio, including comprehensive and non-comprehensive products as well as Invisalign Moderate and Invisalign Go.On a sequential basis, Q3 Clear Aligner revenues were down very slightly from record Q2, reflecting more pronounced summer seasonality than last year, especially in EMEA where practices and patients appear to have taken extended holidays and where offices were impacted due to resurgence of COVID-19 cases and restrictions, especially in some markets in Asia Pacific. In the Teen segment, Q3 '21 Invisalign Clear Aligner volumes for teens were strong, up 13.8% sequentially and 26.6% year-over-year to a record 206,000 teens, representing approximately 1/3 of total cases shipped, with strong shipment growth from North American orthodontists and a record quarter for Teen in APAC. Our third quarter revenues also include non-case revenue for clinical training and education and doctor-prescribed retainer products. Retention is a critical part of creating and maintaining a beautiful new smile. Retainers prevent teeth from gradually shifting back to their initial positions after treatment ends. Studies show that without retention, even perfectly aligned teeth can gradually revert to their pre-treatment state and that dentition continues to change as patients age, often requiring limited treatment, also known as touch-up treatment if not properly retained. Our retention products are designed to maintain teeth that have been aligned by Invisalign aligners, braces or other aligners.These retainer products can accommodate lingual bars, wires, also known as a permanent retainer, missing teeth that require an artificial tooth and bite ramps, also known as turbos or blocks. While our retainer business continues to deliver solid revenue growth, our share of retention market is significantly underpenetrated, even more so than in our share of the orthodontic case starts. We have been developing a robust retainer strategy, including a separate marketing team focused solely on driving adoption and increasing market share in the United States. Our objective is to build brand awareness for Vivera retainers and drive engagement with doctors through clinical education and sales initiatives, while connecting consumers to doctors through demand creation programs and our concierge service. We've also recently implemented social media campaigns featuring the benefits of Vivera from the makers of Invisalign Clear Aligners.We believe that incremental investments will provide increased value for Invisalign practices and drive growth consistent with our long-term financial model target. In addition, we successfully rolled out a limited pilot program to participating Invisalign providers in the United States and Canada that offers a monthly targeted subscription program to address the unmet patient demand for retention or touch-up cases. Our goal is to encourage experienced high volume in Invisalign practices who regularly treat patients with our comprehensive products to offer premium retention or entry-level products for the long-term health of their patients and to grow their businesses. Practices in this pilot program can purchase a monthly subscription at a fixed price based on their monthly needs for retention or limited treatment. The program allows doctors the flexibility to order both touch-up or retention aligners with their tiered subscription. The program is designed for a segment of experienced Invisalign doctors who are not regularly using our retainers or low-stage aligners. The positive feedback from our doctors have been encouraging.

 



For instance, the doctors at Bray and Tarby told us the program is very straightforward and easy to understand, and they've been hoping Align will do something like this. Dr. Jonathan Nicozisis at Princeton Orthodontics called the program a home run. We went -- he went on to predict it should replace the idea that doctors invest in 3D printing and the additional complications and expenses it requires, including the need for a full-time employee and additional overhead costs, particularly because he believes his treatment outcomes are always better with Align. Q3 non-case revenues also included accessories and consumables such as aligner cases called clam shells, cleaning crystals and other oral health products that are available on our e-commerce channels in the U.S. only, including the Invisalign accessory store, Walmart and Amazon.In Q3, we announced an exclusive supply distribution agreement with Ultradent Products Inc., a leading developer and manufacturer of high-tech dental materials, devices and instruments worldwide. The Invisalign Professional Whitening program powered by Opalescence is optimized for Invisalign aligners and Vivera retainers and is available only through Invisalign-trained doctors. Also in Q3, we launched the Invisalign Whitening Pen through an e-commerce channels in the U.S. only. The Whitening Pen is an over-the-counter retail product for consumers seeking quick tooth whitening at a lower price and is not intended to be used with aligners. The Whitening Pen complements the other accessory products that Align already markets to consumers through its existing e-commerce channels and is a key addition to our consumable product portfolio. Now let's turn to the specifics around our third quarter results, starting with the Americas. For the Americas, Q3 results reflected strong performance, including record revenues for Latin America as well as summer seasonality for adult case starts in North America that primarily impacted GP practices, strong ortho performance, especially in the teen market that included increased utilization from the orthodontic channel.Invisalign case volume was up 0.7% sequentially and up 36.4% year-over-year, reflecting growth across the region, especially in LatAm. DSO utilization continued to be a strong growth driver as well, led by Heartland and Smile Docs. For our international business, Q3 Invisalign case volume was up 27% year-over-year on top of record growth in the same quarter last year. On a sequential basis, international shipments were down sequentially 4.3%, primarily as a result of greater seasonality and COVID-related shutdowns in APAC markets. For EMEA, Q3 Invisalign case volumes were up 49.6% year-over-year, with broad-based growth across all markets led by the U.K. and Iberia, along with continued growth in our expansion markets in Central and Eastern Europe and the Benelux. For Q3, year-over-year Invisalign volume in EMEA was driven by increased submitters from both orthodontists and GPs and increased utilization primarily from orthos. On a sequential basis, EMEA was down sequentially 16.5% following a record Q2, primarily as a result of the extended seasonality we had anticipated primarily from summer holidays and vacations across the region.For APAC, Q3 volumes were up 4.2% compared to a record Q3 last year in APAC. On a year-over-year basis, growth was uneven. The market as APAC, the first region to emerge from the depths of the COVID lockdown in 2020. Additionally, we saw COVID resurgences and lockdowns sporadically impact various APAC countries in Q3. On a sequential basis, Q3 Invisalign volumes were up 21.2% reflecting growth across the region, led by a record quarter in China, especially from teen cases as well as strong growth in Japan and ANZ. And Q3, growth from both channels was strong, with ortho growth driven by increased Invisalign utilization and GP growth -- channel growth driven by increased Invisalign submitters. APAC teen shipments reached an all-time high in Q3. At the recent 10th China Finance Summit Awards, Align was recognized as the 2021 most innovative enterprise for its advancements and outstanding contributions in the field of digital orthodontics. This award builds on our prior recognition of Align's leadership in the digital orthodontics industry and its efforts to promote the modernization of orthodontics. Our consumer marketing focuses on educating consumers about the Invisalign system to drive demand to Invisalign doctor's offices, ultimately capitalizing on the massive market opportunity to transform 500 million smiles.In Q3, we expanded the next generation of the "Invis is" media campaign across EMEA, APAC and Brazil to increase awareness with adult, mom and teen consumers. Globally, we delivered 6.45 billion impressions, growing 42% year-over-year, resulting in a 70% year-over-year increase in unique visitors to our websites. In the U.S., we connected with teens on Snapchat, YouTube and Twitch with our "Invis is Not Your Parents Braces" campaign. These campaigns continue to feature some of the largest teen influencers from our Invisalign Smile Squad, like Charli D'Amelio, Marsai Martin, Michael Lynn Collins and Devon Key. These influencers share their personal experience with Invisalign treatment, including why they chose Invisalign treatment to shape their smiles. As part of our focus on teens, with our Invisalign ChangeMakers program, we held a recognition event hosted by Marsai Martin, with teens across the country to celebrate and recognize 100 teens across the country who drove positive change within their communities.To continue growing for our young adult businesses, we expanded the "Invis is a Powerful Thing" campaign, which highlights how powerful the smile transformation with Invisalign treatment can be for their self-confidence. In the U.S., we expanded our Invisalign Smile Squad to include young adult influencers such as Cody Rigsby, Lana Condor and Emily Hampshire, will help to deliver over 405 million impressions. Additionally, our influencer partnerships with TikTok creators helped increase traffic to our sites with a 127% increase in click-through rates. In Brazil, we launched the "Invis is a Powerful Thing" campaign and teamed up with mega-influencer, [Indecipherable] to increase website traffic by 30%. In the EMEA region, we expanded into new media channels such as TikTok and Snapchat across the U.K., Germany and France to drive engagement. These efforts led to more than 153% increase in unique visitors. We also started consumer advertising in Russia, which resulted in more of a 1,000 increase in unique visitors to our website. In Q3, we continue to expand our consumer advertising across the APAC region, experienced a 132% increase in unique visitors to our websites.In Australia, we expanded our media mix to include partners such as TikTok and Snapchat, which resulted in a 250% growth year-over-year in unique visitors to our website. In Japan, we continue to see a strong response from consumers to our "Invis is" campaign, resulting to more than an 800% increase year-over-year in unique visitors to our website. Adoption of our consumer and patient app, My Invisalign, continued to increase in Q3 with 1.2 million downloads to date. Usage of our four digital tools also continue to increase. For example, our Invisalign Virtual Appointment tool was used over 15,000 times and our insurance verification feature was used 14,000 times in Q3. Furthermore, we received more than 1.5 million patient photos in our Virtual Care feature to date globally, which continues to provide us with rich data to leverage our AI capabilities and improve our services for doctors that is used to enhance their patient's care. For our Systems and Services business, Q3 revenues grew 57.3% year-over-year reflecting strong scanner shipments and services and was up 5% sequentially. This is the fifth consecutive quarter of sequential revenue growth for our Systems and Services business.The iTero Element 5D Plus imaging system continued gaining traction across all regions, with the most recent launch in Japan in Q3. The iTero Element 5D Plus imaging system will be available in China in Q4 of this year. Additionally, the iTero Element Plus Series was launched in Korea in Q3. The series expands the portfolio of iTero Element scanners and imaging systems to include new solutions that serve the needs of a broader range of doctors and patients in the dental market. Moreover, I'm proud to say that in a recent clinical study, the iTero Element 5D intraoral scanner was found to be more sensitive than bitewing radiology in detecting early enamel lesions, providing further evidence of the benefits of iTero 5D scanner in detection and monitoring of interproximal caries lesions or cavities above the gingiva without exposing patients to harmful ionizing radiation. This is great news for our iTero business as the study further supports the diagnostic validity of near-infrared imaging technology offered by the iTero 5D scanner for early proximal caries detection.The findings also underscore the valuable role that NIRI technology can have in dental health assessment and early detection of cavities, which is important to the overall oral healthcare treatment options and a comfortable safe experience for a broad population of patients. A strong indicator of the digital acceleration with dental offices is a number of intraoral digital scans used for Invisalign case submissions. Total worldwide intraoral digital scans used to start in Invisalign case in Q3 increased 84.2% from 78.3% in Q3 last year. International intraoral digital scans for Invisalign case submissions increased 79.3%, up from 72.1% in the same last year. For the Americas, 88% of cases were submitted using an intraoral digital scan compared to 83.2% a year ago. Cumulatively, over 44.9 million orthodontic scans and 9.3 million restorative scans have been performed with iTero scanners. Our Q3 Systems and Services revenues also includes exocad, CAD/CAM products and services. exocad's expertise in restorative dentistry, implantology, guided surgery and smile design, extends our digital dental solutions and broadens Align's digital platform toward fully integrated interdisciplinary and workflows.We remain excited about our continued integration progress and product plans with exocad. During the quarter, exocad launched ChairsideCAD3.0 Galway, the next generation of exocad's easy-to-use CAD software for single-visit dentistry. The software has improved automation for fast crown design and enables users to integrate open hardware and materials of choice. exocad's ChairsideCAD received 2021 Cellerant's Best of Class Technology Award for the third consecutive year. Also during the quarter, exocad had its largest ever presence at IDS, the International Dental Show, where they showcased their seamless digital workflows and the simplicity of the use of exocad's Galway software release. exocad was the only company at IDS to showcase live patient treatment with a smile creator experience station, featuring iTero's scans, instant smile makeovers and production of clip-on smiles. With that, I'll now turn it over to John.John F. Morici -- Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice PresidentThanks, Joe. Now for our Q3 financial results. Total revenues for the third quarter were $1.016 billion, up 0.5% from the prior quarter and up 38.4% from the corresponding quarter a year ago. For Clear Aligners, Q3 revenues of $837.6 million were down 0.4% sequentially and up 34.9% year-over-year, reflecting Invisalign volume growth across all geographies. In Q3, we shipped 655,100 Invisalign cases, a decrease of 1.6% sequentially with an increase of 32.1% year-over-year. In addition, we shipped to a record 85,500 Invisalign doctors worldwide, of which approximately 7,200 were first-time customers. Q3 Clear Aligner revenues reflect strong growth across the Invisalign portfolio, led by comprehensive products. Q3 comprehensive volume increased 1.3% sequentially and 30.3% year-over-year. And Q3 non-comprehensive volume decreased 8.1% sequentially and increased 36.8% year-over-year. Q3 adult patients decreased 7.3% sequentially and increased 34.7% year-over-year. In Q3, teens or younger patients increased 13.8% sequentially and 26.6% year-over-year.Clear Aligner revenues were unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange of approximately $1.5 million or approximately 0.2 points sequentially. On a year-over-year basis, Clear Aligner revenues were favorably impacted by foreign exchange of approximately $16.1 million or approximately 2.6 points. For Q3, Invisalign comprehensive ASPs increased sequentially and year-over-year. On a sequential basis, Invisalign comprehensive ASPs reflect higher additional aligners. On a year-over-year basis, comprehensive ASPs reflect favorable foreign exchange, partially offset by the increase in net revenue deferrals for new Invisalign cases versus additional aligner shipments. Q3 Invisalign non-comprehensive ASPs increased sequentially and year-over-year. On a sequential basis, Invisalign non-comprehensive ASPs reflect higher additional aligners, partially offset by higher discounts. On a year-over-year basis, Invisalign non-comprehensive ASPs were favorably impacted by foreign exchange, higher additional aligners and lower discounts. Clear Aligner deferred revenues on the balance sheet increased $84 million or 9.3% sequentially and $347.3 million or 53.9% year-over-year and will be recognized as the additional aligners are shipped. Our Systems and Services revenues for the third quarter were a record $178.3 million, up 5% sequentially and up 57.3% year-over-year.This marks the fifth quarter in a row of sequential revenue increase. The increase sequentially can be attributed to increased scanner shipments and increased services revenues from our larger installed base. The increase year-over-year can be attributed to increased scanner shipments, increased service revenues from our larger installed base as well as higher ASPs from a favorable mix shift toward higher-priced iTero 5D scanners and imaging systems. Our Systems and Services deferred revenue on the balance sheet was up $27.2 million or 17% sequentially and up $100.1 million or 115.2% year-over-year, primarily due to the increase in scanner sales and deferral of services revenue, which we recognize ratably over the service period. Moving on to gross margin. Third quarter overall gross margin was 74.3%, down 0.7 points sequentially and up 1.6 points year-over-year. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding stock-based compensation and amortization of intangibles related to our 2020 exocad acquisition, overall gross margin was 74.7% for the third quarter, down 0.7 points sequentially and up 1.4 points year-over-year.Overall gross margin was favorably impacted by approximately 0.5 points on a year-over-year basis due to foreign exchange and relatively unchanged sequentially. Clear Aligner gross margin for the third quarter was 76.2%, down 0.7 points sequentially due to higher manufacturing costs and higher additional aligners, partially offset by higher ASPs and lower freight. Clear Aligner gross margin was up 1.5 points year-over-year due to improved manufacturing efficiencies from higher production volume, partially offset by higher ASPs. Systems and Services gross margin for the third quarter was 65.6%, down 0.3 points sequentially primarily due to lower ASPs and higher manufacturing variances, partially offset by higher service revenue. Systems and Services gross margin was up 3.6 points year-over-year due to higher ASPs from product mix shift to iTero 5D and 5D Plus Series and service revenues, partially offset by higher freight cost. Q3 operating expenses were $494 million, up sequentially 0.9% and up 38.4% year-over-year. On a sequential basis, operating expenses were up slightly by $4.4 million.Year-over-year, operating expenses increased by $137 million, reflecting increased headcount and our continued investment in marketing, sales and R&D activities and investments commensurate with business growth. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding stock-based compensation and amortization of intangibles and acquisition costs related to our 2020 exocad acquisition, operating expenses were $466.1 million, up sequentially 1% and up 40.3% year-over-year due to the reasons described earlier. Our third quarter operating income of $261.1 million resulted in an operating margin of 25.7%, down 0.9 points from the prior quarter and up 1.6 points year-over-year. The sequential decrease in operating margin was attributable primarily to lower gross margin. The year-over-year increase in operating margin was primarily attributed to higher gross margin and operating leverage as well as the favorable impact from foreign exchange by approximately 0.7 points, partially offset by continued investments as mentioned earlier.On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes stock-based compensation and amortization of intangibles and acquisition-related costs, the operating margin for the third quarter was 28.8%, down 0.9 points sequentially and up 0.8 points year-over-year. Interest and other income and expense net for the third quarter was a gain of $0.8 million, up sequentially by $0.9 million and down year-over-year by $6.6 million. On a year-over-year basis, interest and other income and expense decreased primarily due to net foreign exchange losses in the three months ended September 30, 2021, as compared to net foreign exchange gains in the same period in 2020, which was partially offset by an unrealized gain on an investment held in a private company recognized in the three months ended September 30, 2021. The GAAP effective tax rate for the third quarter was 30.9% compared to 25.7% in the second quarter and 24.5% in the third quarter of the prior year. On a non-GAAP -- our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 22.2% in the third quarter compared to 19.5% in the second quarter and 16.6% in the third quarter of the prior year.He third quarter GAAP and non-GAAP effective tax rates were higher than the second quarter primarily due to our foreign income being taxed at different rates and tax true-ups. Our GAAP and non-GAAP third quarter effective tax rates were higher than the third quarter of the prior year primarily due to lower tax benefits from foreign income tax at lower rates and a tax benefit recognized last year resulting from an income tax audit settlement. Third quarter net income per diluted share was $2.28, down sequentially $0.23 and up $0.52 compared to the prior year. On a non-GAAP basis, net income per diluted share was $2.87 for the third quarter, down $0.17 sequentially and up $0.62 year-over-year. Moving on to the balance sheet. As of September 30, 2021, cash and cash equivalents were $1.2 billion, up sequentially $151.5 million and up $622.3 million year-over-year. Of our $1.2 billion of cash and cash equivalents, $607.5 million was held in the U.S. and $630.3 million was held by our international entities.Q3 accounts receivable balance was $855 million, up approximately 5.8% sequentially. Our overall days sales outstanding was 75 days, up approximately three days sequentially and down approximately two days as compared to Q3 last year. Cash flow from operations for the third quarter was $355 million. Capital expenditures for the third quarter were $124.3 million as we continued to invest in increasing aligner capacity and facilities. Free cash flow, defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, amounted to $230.7 million. We also have $300 million available under our untapped revolving line of credit. Under our $1 billion repurchase program announced in May of 2021, we have $825 million remaining available for repurchase of our common stock. Now let me turn to our outlook and the factors that inform our view for the remainder of the year. We are very pleased with our Q3 results and strong year-over-year growth, which reflects continued customer adoption of the iTero scanners and increased Invisalign utilization across customer channels, including teens, adults and young patients. Over the last 18 months, our investment decisions have helped drive and capture demand across all regions and customer channels.We continued spending in many areas and have seen good return on our investments and strong revenue growth. Consumer interest in improving smiles is high and doctor acceptance in the Align Digital Platform is helping drive growth across all regions and market segments. As anticipated in our Q3 outlook, we experienced more pronounced summer seasonality, more noticeably in September and continued into October as practices took more extended vacations and patient traffic flow was sporadically interrupted by regional COVID resurgence, restrictions and other lockdowns. We anticipate these COVID challenges and the general macroeconomic uncertainties to continue into Q4. Taking this all into account, as we look at the remainder of 2021, we expect revenues for the year to be in the range of $3.9 billion to $3.95 billion, at the high end of our original guidance range. We also expect our outlook and revenue growth for the second half of 2021 to be in the high end of our long-term operating model of 20% to 30%.On a GAAP basis, we anticipate our 2021 operating margin to be around 25%. On a non-GAAP basis, we expect 2021 operating margin to be approximately three points higher than our GAAP operating margin after excluding stock-based compensation and intangible amortization from our 2020 exocad acquisition. We remain confident in the huge market opportunities for our business, our industry leadership and our ability to execute. We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, innovation and manufacturing capacity to drive our growth and accelerate adoption in a huge underpenetrated market. In addition, during Q4 2021, we expect to repurchase up to $100 million of our common stock through either a combination of open-market repurchases or an accelerated stock repurchase agreement. For 2021, we expect our investments in capital expenditures to be above $400 million. Capital expenditures primarily relate to building construction improvements as well as additional manufacturing capacity to support our international expansion. This includes our planned investment in our new facility in Wroclaw, Poland, the first in the EMEA region. With that, I'll turn it back over to Joe for final comments. Joe?Joseph M. Hogan -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, John. In summary, Q3 was a strong quarter, and we're pleased with our performance across the business. Align is uniquely positioned. We have the clinical capability and product portfolio supported by doctor and patient workflows, only accessible through the proprietary Align Digital Platform to address the broadest range of orthodontic cases with the Invisalign system through a network of trained Invisalign doctors who have the expertise to reach more than the 500 million potential global patients. As we develop our annual plan for 2022 over the next few months, it's important that we continue to expand our commercial, manufacturing, R&D, clinical, treatment planning and manufacturing operations. And continue to leverage our global quality and regulatory muscles in existing and emerging markets. Reach millions of consumers who want to transform their smile with the most advanced Clear Aligner systems in the world.Through advertising, PR, digital, social media and influencer marketing to drive demand and conversion through Invisalign-trained doctors. Increased ortho adoption and teen utilization of Invisalign treatment and train and educate GP dentists on how the iTero Element family of intraoral scanners and imaging systems propel today's dental practice into the future by enhancing patient experience and elevating clinical precision, and in the benefits of digital dentistry with the Invisalign system, trusted by more than 11 million people worldwide to improve their smiles. We remain focused on strategic execution, accountability, agility, customer service excellence and continuing to make investments to grow our business. This is a multivariable equation that we continue to talk about and that, in combination, we remain uniquely able to offer. As we continue to stay the course with our strategic initiatives, we also continue to navigate the COVID-19 environment and the challenges and uncertainty that go with it.Throughout the pandemic, our top priority has been consistent, the health and safety of our employees and their families, doctors and their staff and that has not changed. The situation with COVID remains very fluid. And with the rise of the Delta variant, many cities, states and countries have issued or plan to issue new guidance including mask requirements, regular testing capacity limits and vaccination mandates. Operating in this evolving environment is challenging for everyone, and we are staying as close as we can to the situation. The shift from traditional analog wires and brackets to a fully end-to-end digital platform is not easy. It cannot be done without very complex and industry-leading technology and talented, passionate people. But the digital transformation in orthodontics is inevitable.Our technology is prevalent, touching every aspect of what we do for manufacturing excellence, where we currently produce over 750,000 unique aligners a day, to expanding our geographic footprint to over 100 markets, to building a network of over 210,000 trained Invisalign doctors and providing the technology to our doctors in a complete digital system, the Align Digital Platform. As the inventor of the leading Clear Aligner system, we've been investing in this therapy for over 24 years to get it to where it is today. And yet the majority of the market opportunity remains largely untapped, with over 500 million potential cases starts globally, align is in a rare position to address this market with the Align Digital Platform powered by two decades of research and development, manufacturing excellence, clinical data based on more than 11 million patients with AI machine learning and digital tools to help our doctors efficiently communicate with their patients, show and explain any issues and visualize potential treatment options. And together with doctors, we're going to unleash the power of digital for dentistry in orthodontics more than ever. Thank you for your time today. I look forward to speaking with you on Friday at our Investor Day. We will share more details on the Align Digital Platform and our vision and strategy to make Clear Aligner treatment available to everyone through doctors. Now I'll turn the call over to our operator for your questions. Operator?