  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the EPAM Systems second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, David Straube, head of investor relations. Please go ahead.David Straube -- Head, Investor Relations Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. By now you should have received your copy of the earnings release for the company's second-quarter 2021 results. If you have not, a copy is available on epam.com in the Investors section. With me today are Arkadiy Dobkin, CEO and president; and Jason Peterson, chief financial officer. I would like to remind those listening that some of the comments made on today's call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, as described in the company's earnings release and SEC filings. Additionally, all references to reported results that are non-GAAP measures have been reconciled to the comparable GAAP measures and are available in our quarterly earnings materials located in the Investors section of our website. With that said, I'll now turn the call over to Ark.Ark Dobkin -- Chief Executive Officer, President, and Chairman of the Board Thank you, David. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. We delivered a strong set of results for the second quarter with revenues of $881 million, reflecting reported year-over-year growth rate of 39% and 36% in constant currency terms. Non-GAAP earnings per share were $2.05, an increase of 40% over the same quarter in 2020. Growth was very much broad based. All our geographies and most of our industry verticals experienced strong demand, reflecting the robust market environment and pushing our growth rate to historically [Inaudible] levels. On a sequential basis, quarterly revenues exceeded our Q1 results by more than $100 million, and we finished another quarter with very strong sequential growth. The reason for surge in demand is pretty obvious. By now we all know that application development and cloud and data integration services are growing post-pandemic very strongly and driving corporate budgets forward. But in addition, it has become very visible that the current client transformation efforts are continuous and multidimensional and carries uncertainty of them now. And that is the reason why, on top of application development and cloud integration at large, we are seeing very fast expanding demand for software-enabled business scenarios coming our way too. Overall and across all our industry verticals we have a portfolio of both new and current customers. We see progression into new and larger multiyear engagements as our customers look in part to fulfill both engineering demand as well as demand for new collaboration models that bring in greater stake in product design and product management. In short, clients really need simultaneous help with both strategy and implementations today. This means that we will have to smartly blend not only industry and functional consulting expertise, but a good portion of management consulting capabilities together with very scalable and tough notions we need in technology delivery services, which have been maturing over the years. All that requires us to experiment with new approaches to source different type of talent, manage numerous risk and find very new ways of work in general. And we're doing all of that. First, certain operation practices introduced in response to COVID that made us nimble and responding to new customer demands. And we have created an even more adaptable internal digital platforms to manage our increasingly global business operation. Additionally, throughout 2021, we have focused on establishing repeatable approaches to drive growth across a more globally diversified delivery base while also expanding our domain capability and geographical footprint, both organically and through acquisitions. Finally, we are constantly incenting our partner ecosystem with closer and more vertically aligned working that position EPAM as a partner of choice for our cloud, digital, and industry solution innovations. That includes, for example, EPAM active participation in the MACH Alliance and continuous contribution of over 4,500 EPAMers to open-source projects, which makes EPAM the No. 1 services company now in the open-source community and among top 20 global contributors overall. Let's bring now some highlights on expanding our EPAM Continuum motion, which remains one of our core priorities, including the addition of strategy advisory services on top of already established industry and functional consulting capabilities. It's becoming important exactly because of growing client demand for software-enabled business scenarios. And we seek now to help clients across a number of areas in their fast-changing businesses with both strategy implementations simultaneously. During the last several calls, we were sharing specific client stories to illustrate our progress in the end-to-end solution and increasing impact of our consulting quotient to our overall engagement. We brought examples from the gaming industry, which was one of the few that performed well even at the beginning of the pandemic uncertainty; and the healthcare industry, where we are helping with large-scale technology platform transformation efforts; and data and analytics segment, where we assisted to one of the most sophisticated global information providers with a massive cloud modernization story. Today, we would like to highlight a client from the retail industry where we have delivered across the range of end-to-end programs. This American multinational manufacturer and marketer of prestigious skincare, makeup, fragrance, and hair care products is undergoing their own transformation to drive a deeper connection to their customers, optimize operations and shorten their supply chain. It's in part responding to consumer changes because of the global pandemic with a wider shift in the luxury and retail business model. We are working with the company to develop a control tower equivalent of their supply chain, connecting several internal and external data points, including product performance across geographic regions, competitor analysis, consumer engagement index, social media, and even weather events to create a predictive view and form a real-time production and placement of their projects in consumer markets. This supply chain optimization project leveraging our business consulting, data analytics, and engineering capabilities. With a blending of physical and digital consumer buying behaviors, we developed a virtual trial platform, allowing the consumer to apply a cosmetic using AR/VR technology, in addition to creating a virtual consultation and the ability to engage with their consumer in new ways. The platform can be repurposed across their multiple cosmetic brands. The digital engagement platform strengthened the user journey during the pandemic months when stores were closed across the world and had driven better conversion rates and results for consumer acquisitions online. It's already obvious that major consumer behavior shifts happened and are here to stay, so the company and EPAM believe that their future sales will be largely driven by digital platforms and the increased functionality based on the latest technology trends. Let's move now to the topic of talent. While the supply of talent continues to be the major challenge that is faced by all of the players in our sector, EPAM continues to grow rapidly in Central and Eastern Europe and in India. Additionally, we opened a new delivery location in Ontario, Canada, and are also expanding our operations in Latin America with the acquisition in Colombia of a digital and engineering company, which we just have closed a couple of days ago. We'll share more details just in couple of minutes. In total, in Q2, we welcomed more than 3,800 net hires organically to EPAM, this talent joining the company from our university programs, lateral hires in our delivery locations and, increasingly, senior-level hires in market geographies with extensive industry experience. The last one allow us to expand our EPAM Continuum penetration of North American market with the addition of business experience and technology consulting teams in a half dozen new locations. While in Europe, we also brought new consulting capability via acquisition. In total, in the first half of 2021, approximately 6,700 net additions have joined EPAM, a number greater than what we historically ever had added on a full-year basis. As in the past, to maintain hiring at an accelerated rate, we continue to make significant investments in our global talent development, upskilling and educational programs. We believe that in addition to these investments, our internal platform progression in talent, analysis, and AI will continue to bring us a new level of engagement and capability to deploy increasingly higher-value services to our global enterprise customers. We also believe that while all this should allow us to continuously scale, it will also ensure the quality standards of our delivery services without compromising costs. Last time, we shared news about three companies being added to EPAM via our M&A efforts. Recently, we made two more acquisitions to extend our consulting and engineering capabilities while also expanding our presence in several for our key geographies. Last week, we announced our acquisition of CORE SE, consultancy think tank specializing in IT strategy and technology-driven transformations with presence in Berlin, Dubai, London, and Zurich. CORE will strengthen EPAM's strategy consulting footprint and extend our talent footprint in the DACH region. Earlier this week, we also closed the acquisition of S4N, a digital software engineering company. In addition to their primary application platform development expertise, the company specializes in machine learning, data architecture, and cloud ops. Located in Bogota, Colombia and with presence in Seattle, Washington, the acquisition of S4N expands EPAM's geographic presence in Latin America and forms a second-class cloud institution. We are extremely pleased to extend EPAM's new talent and capabilities offered by those two firms. Regarding acquisitions, I would like to close with some additional comments related to our recent efforts in the area. We already see visible contribution from our recent M&A activities in such areas as cyber advanced analytics, specifically on PolSource, which is one of the largest deals to date. We should say that we are rapidly shaping new EPAM offering and accelerating our go-to-market activities within the fast-growing Salesforce ecosystem. With that, let me hand the call over to Jason, who will provide more specifics on our Q2 results and update our 2021 business outlook.Jason Peterson -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Ark, and good morning, everyone. We are very pleased with our Q2 results, which reflect strong growth across a broad range of industry verticals and geographies. In the second quarter, EPAM delivered revenues of $881.4 million, a year-over-year increase of 39.4% on a reported basis and 35.9% in constant-currency terms, reflecting a positive foreign exchange impact of 350 basis points. This quarter's revenue growth was substantially driven by the continued improvement in the company's ability to expand delivery capacity in response to the extremely strong demand for EPAM's services. Moving on to industry vertical performance. We delivered very strong sequential and year-over-year growth across the travel and consumer, financial services, telecommunications, energy and manufacturing, and automotive industries. Looking at the year-over-year performance across each of our industry verticals, travel and consumer grew 59.9% driven by very strong growth from both our consumer and retail clients, who are initiating and expanding large-scale transformation programs as they look for different ways to connect to their end customers. Financial services grew 51.5% with very strong, broad-based growth coming from banking, insurance wealth management, and payment platform providers. Like last quarter, growth was driven by modernization and transformation of core applications, in addition to new payment platforms associated with real-time payments. Software and high tech grew 33.2% in the quarter. Life sciences and healthcare grew 33.1%. Business information and media delivered 12.5% growth in the quarter. Growth in the quarter reflected a tougher comparison with the same quarter last year, with several clients having experienced substantial growth in the first half of 2020 with revenues from those programs generally plateauing late in 2020. And finally, our emerging verticals delivered 56.4% growth driven by clients in telecommunications, energy, manufacturing, and automotive. From a geographic perspective, North America, our largest region representing 59.8% of our Q2 revenues, grew 38.1% year over year or 36.9% in constant currency. Europe, representing 33% of our Q2 revenues, grew 38% year over year or 29.9% in constant currency. CIS, representing 4.4% of our Q2 revenues, grew 70.8% year over year and 74.6% in constant currency. Strong performance in both financial services and materials, in addition to travel and consumer contributing to growth in Q2. And finally, APAC grew 44.4% year over year or 38.9% in constant-currency terms and now represents 2.8% of our revenues. In Q2, revenue growth across the portfolio resulted in increased customer diversification with our top 20 clients growing 19% while our clients outside our top 20 grew 55%. And moving down the income statement. Our GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 33.8%, compared to 33.7% in Q2 of last year. Non-GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 35%, compared to 35.1% in the same quarter last year. Gross margin for the first half of 2021 reflects some degree of elevated labor costs in certain locations, which we expect to manage with rate increases and staffing rotation. GAAP SG&A was 17.2% of revenue, compared to 18.1% in Q2 of last year. And non-GAAP SG&A came in at 15.6% of revenue, compared to 16% in the same period last year. While the absolute dollar spend of our SG&A has increased, the relative percentage of revenue remains lower than historical averages. GAAP income from operations was $125.3 million or 14.2% of revenue in the quarter, compared to $83.4 million or 13.2% of revenue in Q2 last year. Non-GAAP income from operations was $155.2 million or 17.6% of revenues in the quarter, compared to $108.2 million or 17.1% of revenue in Q2 last year. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter came in at 6.9%, which includes a higher-than-expected level of excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits, was 22.9%. Diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis was $1.94. Non-GAAP diluted EPS was $2.05, reflecting a 40.4% increase over the same quarter in 2020. In Q2, there were approximately 59 million diluted shares outstanding. Turning to our cash flow and balance sheet. Cash flow from operations for Q2 was $68.8 million compared to $146.2 million in the same quarter of 2020. Free cash flow was $46.2 million, compared to $134.7 million in the same quarter last year. The lower level of free cash flow in Q2 2021 relative to Q2 2020 was the result of changes in DSO in each quarter, higher levels of cash payments made in Q2 2021 associated with corporate income tax and the absence of tax payment deferral programs made available in Q2 2020 as part of government COVID-related programs. We ended the quarter with approximately $1.3 billion in cash and cash equivalents. At the end of Q2, DSO was 70 days and compares to 67 days in Q1 2021 and 73 days in the same quarter last year. We expect to maintain DSO around the same level for the remainder of the year. Moving on to the operational metrics. We ended the quarter with more than 42,800 consultants, designers and engineers, a year-over-year increase of 32.6%. Our total headcount for Q2 was more than 47,850 employees. Both groups of employees grew just over 10% sequentially. Utilization was 80.2%, compared to 83.9% in Q2 of last year and 81.4% in Q1 2021. Now let's turn to guidance. With a strong first half behind us, a robust demand environment and increased confidence in our ability to scale production headcount in order to meet this demand, we are raising our business outlook for 2021. Starting with our full-year outlook. Revenue growth will now be at least 37% on a reported basis and in constant-currency terms will now be at least 35% after factoring in approximate 2% favorable foreign exchange impact. We now expect approximately 300 basis points of revenue contribution coming from acquisitions we closed in the last 12 months, including CORE SE and S4N. We expect GAAP income from operations will now be in the range of 13.5% to 14.5%. And non-GAAP income from operations will now be in the range of 17% to 18% based on the strength of our first half and anticipated ongoing efficiencies in SG&A spending as a percentage of revenue. We expect our GAAP effective tax rate will now be approximately 11% and our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, to continue to be approximately 23%. Earnings per share. We expect that GAAP diluted EPS will now be in the range of $7.70 to $7.89 for the full year. And non-GAAP diluted EPS will now be in the range of $8.25 to $8.44 for the full year. We expect weighted average share count of 59 million fully diluted shares outstanding. For Q3 of 2021, we expect revenues to be in the range of $957 million to $965 million, producing a year-over-year growth rate of approximately 47% at the midpoint of the range. We expect the favorable impact of FX on revenue growth to be approximately 1%. Lastly, we now expect approximately 450 basis points of revenue contribution to come from acquisitions we closed in the last 12 months. For the third quarter, we expect GAAP income from operations to be in the range of 13.5% to 14.5%, and non-GAAP income from operations to be in the range of 17% to 18%. We expect our GAAP effective tax rate to be approximately 13% and our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, to be approximately 23%. For earnings per share, we expect GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.89 to $1.96 for the quarter and non-GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.15 to $2.22 for the quarter. We expect a weighted average share count of 59.2 million diluted shares outstanding. Finally, a few key assumptions that support our GAAP to non-GAAP measurements. Stock-based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $27.6 million in Q3 and $25.7 million in Q4. Amortization of intangibles is expected to be approximately $5.6 million for each of the remaining quarters. The impact of foreign exchange is expected to be approximately a $1.5 million loss for each of the remaining quarters. Tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments is expected to be around $7.6 million in Q3 and approximately $7.1 million in Q4. And finally, we expect excess tax benefits to be around $13.7 million in Q3 and $12.8 million in Q4. In summary, we are pleased with our Q2 and first half 2021 results, which, combined with the broad-based strength we see across the business, provides support for what we believe will be a very strong 2021 performance. Operator, let's open the call up for questions. 