  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Ashley, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Electronic Arts Q2 fiscal 2022 earnings conference call. Mr. Chris Evenden, VP of investor relations, you may begin your conference.Chris Evenden -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thanks, Ashley. Welcome to EA's second quarter fiscal 2022 earnings call. With me on the call today are Andrew Wilson, our CEO; and Blake Jorgensen, our CFO. Please note that our SEC filings and our earnings release are available at ir.ea.com. In addition, we have posted detailed earnings slides to accompany our prepared remarks. Lastly, after the call, we will post our prepared remarks, an audio replay of this call, our financial model and a transcript. With regards to our calendar, our fiscal Q3 2022 earnings call is scheduled for Tuesday, February 1. And as a reminder, we post the schedule of our entire fiscal year of upcoming earnings calls on our IR website.This presentation and our comments include forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future financial performance of the company. Actual events and results may differ materially from our expectations. We refer you to our most recent Form 10-Q for a discussion of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed today. Electronic Arts makes these statements as of today, November 3, 2021, and disclaims any duty to update them. During this call, the financial metrics, with the exception of free cash flow, will be presented on a GAAP basis. All comparisons made in the course of this call are against the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise stated. And now I'll turn the call over to Andrew. 

 



Andrew Wilson -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Chris. I hope all of you are well and staying healthy. Let me begin with a big thank you to our teams who continue to work from home and do amazing things for our players. I also want to extend a warm welcome to everyone at Playdemic who are now officially part of our Electronic Arts team. We're thrilled to have them on board, adding to our continued strength in sports and mobile. Q2 FY '22 was the strongest second quarter in the history of Electronic Arts. We are growing with our leading franchises, new launches and live services all performing well during the quarter, and our acquisitions are driving additional growth beyond our core business. With more than 500 million unique active accounts, we are connecting players all over the world through each other through more of our favorite content. As a result, net revenue, net bookings and EPS were above our Q2 guidance. And we are now raising our full year net revenue, net bookings and EPS guidance for the second time this fiscal year. Our core strategy is built on four key opportunities; the creation of amazing games and content, tools for the community to engage more deeply with our experiences, the aggregation and distribution of content and experiences to an aggregated audience across platforms, business models and geographies, and harnessing the power of the social ecosystems in and around our games. As part of this, we are executing against three growth drivers in FY '22; expanding our blockbuster franchises, building on our leadership in sports and growing live services across our portfolio.

 



 I'll focus my comments on these today. With our talented creative teams, powerful IP and platform reach, we continue to grow leading blockbuster franchises. Experiences like EA SPORTS FIFA, Apex Legends, Madden NFL, Battlefield and the Sims are some of the most prominent and powerful properties in all of entertainment. Apex Legends continues to grow as one of the top franchises in the industry, a brand-new IP that has scaled to more than 100 million players and is closing in on $1 billion in net bookings annually. Season 9 and Season 10 each respectively set new marks for the highest active players in Season 1, and Q2 was the biggest quarter of in-game spending in APAC that we've had to date. Apex has grown beyond the game as well. It was one of the most watched titles on Twitch during the quarter with more than 130 million hours of Season 10 content watched to date, up nearly 40% from the previous season. As the success of Apex Legends continues, it demonstrates how we are building long-term ecosystems in and around our biggest franchises. At its core is outstanding gameplay, embedded in an immersive world of law and characters that continues to expand. Seasons of new content and in-game events like the recent collection events keep the experience fresh for new and returning players. We've introduced new experiences like the squad-based arenas and recently added a ranked mode. The Apex Legends esports ecosystem is growing as well, with the second year of Apex Legends Global Series now underway. Apex is moving from strength to strength, and we will add to that when we bring Apex Legends to mobile platforms later this year. Battlefield, a number of our blockbuster properties, is beloved by tens of means of fans ahead of our upcoming Battlefield 2042 launch this month, 7.7 million players participated in the Battlefield 2042 open beta in October, including 3.1 million during the early access period, which is the largest early access event we've ever had. Given an opportunity to take an early version of the game still in development, bring in a large audience into the experience and test and learn ahead of launch. With a small slice of the game in our open data, we brought players into the full-scale 128 player combat and many of the only in Battlefield moments that make this franchise so special. The engagement and feedback from players also helped our teams with areas of the game play to polish and refine as we move toward launch. We've now revealed all three of the games pillars, all-out warfare with 128 player multiplay in conquest and breakthrough modes, Battlefield portal, a new way to play that has the community very excited to create their own battlefield experiences and Hazard Zone with completely new focused combat and tactical gameplay that fans are going to love. We're looking forward to players getting to all of these experiences when the full Battlefield 2032 game launches from November '19. Through FY '22, we continue to grow our leadership in sports through new games, acquisitions and new areas of expansion. Our global football or soccer, for us in the North America, franchise continues to be one of the leading game properties in the world with approximately 100 million players across all platforms in the first six months of the fiscal year. EA SPORTS FIFA 22, which launched at the very end of Q2 is after the strongest start in franchise history. The innovation in our new high promotion technology revolutionized gameplay and is inspired, engaged and grown the community. Total players were up 16% and newer franchise players are up nearly 50% year over year from launch with net bookings also up significantly year over year from launch. We're seeing growth across the game with ultimate team engagement up 15% year over year and more players coming into volta and career modes. There is strength in all areas of our global football franchise, including mobile, where later this fiscal year, we will bring new modes, new features and improve gameplay at FIFA Mobile, creating our most rewarding mobile football experience to date. For nearly 30 years, EA SPORTS has been driven to create the best global football franchise in the world. Moving forward, we're in a position to drive greater growth in line with the continued expansion and popularity of the sport. With the talent of our development teams, our robust portfolio of more than 300 license partners, including the Premier League, UEFA, the Bundesliga, LaLiga, the MLS, FietPro and many more and our expertise in growth areas, including esports and mobile, EA SPORTS is ready to activate across the full spectrum of the football world. We have opportunities in new modalities of play and new social experiences that will bring more fans together. As the sport grows, we have opportunities to expand cultural and lifestyle experiences through brand partnerships and content that our fans want more of in and around their game. And we will continue to lead with the most innovative games on more platforms, bringing the full breadth of the sport to the forefront from grassroots football to more of women's leagues, teams and players. We are more confident than ever about our bright future football, and we will grow our franchisees' leadership with our partners around the world. We are continually investing in innovation, creativity and authenticity to bring EA SPORTS games closer to the heart of real world sports and fans. Engagement in NFL 22 has grown each week of this NFL season as players jump into the refresh franchise mode and Ultimate Team to connect and compete with their friends. We've grown the F1 business year over year as F1 2021 from Codemasters continues to bring in more plans and keep fans engaged in one of the most intense F1 title fight in years. NHL 22 launched in October, just as the NHL season began, with a new next-generation console experience delivering a dramatic new visual and gameplay leap for hockey fans. With a portfolio that now spans global football, American football, basketball, hockey, baseball, Gulf, UFC fighting and racing, no other entertainment provider in the world has the reach across top-level leagues, teams and partners as EA SPORTS. We have the unique opportunity to bring together these properties and passionate fan communities enabling social connections through more innovative experiences and content. Expanding live service across our portfolio, particularly in mobile is our third growth driver for FY '22. In Q2, we closed the acquisition of Playdemic, creators of the massively successful Golf Clash mobile game. We're looking forward to combining our strength to continue the success of Golf Clash as a live service and bringing the cloud mechanic to more of our sports franchises, where our licenses and expertise will enable us to create some great new experiences. Our EA Mobile teams also continue to drive success in live services, including Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes, which surpassed 100 million players live to date in Q2. Through the collective talent of the Glu Mobile, Playdemic and EA Mobile teams, we have built a powerful mobile native organization within EA. This group is sharply focused on accelerating growth in our portfolio of more than 15 top mobile live services as well as introducing new experiences that take our powerful IP, including Battlefield into the expanding mobile audience. The opportunities in front of us are exciting. We feel great about the position we are in with strong leaders, including our new chief operating officer, managing companywide operations creative leaders joining our management team and our new chief experience officer, leading our efforts to grow social ecosystem, all supporting our amazing teams as we drive growth in the next era of interactive entertainment. Now I'll turn the call over to Blake.Blake Jorgensen -- Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Andrew. We had a strong beat this quarter, primarily driven by our live services, led by Apex Legends and FIFA Ultimate Team. We closed our acquisition of Playdemic at the end of the quarter, adding both a highly profitable mobile title and a blueprint for new sports titles in our broad portfolio. We delivered net revenue of $1.83 billion and net bookings of $1.85 billion. Net bookings were $126 million above our guidance, making it our largest Q2 ever and more than double the level of last year's. We're raising our guidance again for the second time this year based on our confidence of our franchises and live services through the remainder of the year. EA SPORTS FIFA 21 performed exceptionally well through its product cycle with engagement in its last couple of months up very significantly on FIFA 20 Keeping fans engaged drove strong retention from FIFA 21 into FIFA 22. We're off to the strongest start ever with the new title. Full game sales and FIFA Ultimate Team are both up double digits year on year based on the first three weeks of sales. Apex Legends net bookings were up over 150% year on year. There was some benefit from having two collection events this quarter, but even so, the underlying growth rate is clearly extremely strong. Apex has delivered over $1.6 billion in net bookings life to date and we're well ahead of our expectations for the year. To launch an original IP and steadily build it into a franchise of this magnitude is exceptional, and I'd like to recognize the Respawn team for their creativity, deep understanding of the player base and for their excellent execution, which can be seen again this week with the successful launch of Season 11. Although we continue to watch closely, we have not seen a slowdown in engagement for spend on our games as countries such as the U.K. emerge from lockdown. Digital represents 62% of full-game units sold through on a trailing 12-month basis, up six-percentage points from last year. The strong digital mix for full-game sales, aided by growth in live services pushed underlying gross margins significantly above last year's. Operating expenses, which include recent acquisition costs, came in slightly below our expectations. So now turning to guidance. We now expect fiscal 2022 GAAP revenue to be $6.925 billion, cost of revenue to be $1.48 billion and earnings per share of $2.03, up from our original expectations of $1.34. Remember that this EPS calculation does not factor in future buybacks under our two-year $2.6 billion share repurchase program. We're raising our net booking guidance for the year by $225 million to $7.65 billion. This is driven by outperformance so far this year, plus ongoing strength from Apex and FIFA and just under $100 million from six months of Playdemic. This is partially offset by pressure on some of our mobile titles, including product changes and IDFA impacts and some moves elsewhere in our portfolio. Our expectations for Battlefield are roughly unchanged from the time of our last call. We started the year already forecasting strong organic growth and now we're $325 million ahead of that, having raised guidance twice. More specifics are in the downloadable model we post on our website. We've also raised our guidance for operating cash flow by $100 million to $1.95 billion with capital expenditures reduced to around $200 million this year, which would deliver free cash flow of about $1.75 billion. See our earnings slides and press release for further cash flow information. As noted last quarter, capex is at an elevated level for a couple of years as we invest in our employee work environment and new offices around the globe. For the third quarter, we expect GAAP net revenue of $1.75 billion, cost of revenue will be $625 million and operating expenses of $1.1 billion. This results in an earnings per share of $0.02 for the third quarter. Remember, GAAP EPS is driven by GAAP revenue deferrals, which is a very large number in Q3. We expect Q3 financial 2022 net bookings to be $2.625 billion, up over 9% on last year's Q3, which it should be noted included last year the launch of FIFA 21 and was the largest quarter ever for Q3 in the company's history. The games in live service teams are driving continued growth in our franchises. And we have Battlefield launching in just over a week. Our broad portfolio of games and live services position us well for a strong holiday season with growth drivers in place for this year, next year and beyond. Now I'll hand the call back to Andrew.Andrew Wilson -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Blake. The holiday quarter is always an exciting time. We're looking forward to delivering amazing entertainment and connecting hundreds of millions of players around the world to each other through our games and live services in the months ahead. I want to take the opportunity here to say thank you again to our incredible teams and Electronic Arts. Their commitment to creativity and innovation and service of our players is second to none. And every day, it is inspiring to work alongside such talented and dedicated people. It's been a strong year to date, and we're confident in our plans to drive continued growth in the years ahead. Now Blake and I are here for your questions. 