
OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to the Crown Castle Q1 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Ben Lowe. Please go ahead.Benjamin Raymond Lowe -- Vice President Of Corporate Finance & TreasurerGreat. Thank you, Vicki, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today, as we discuss our first quarter 2021 results. With me on a call this morning are Jay Brown, Crown Castle's Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Schlanger, Crown Castle's Chief Financial Officer. To aid the discussion, we have posted supplemental materials in the Investors section of our website at crowncastle.com, that will be referenced throughout the call this morning. This conference call will contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and the actual results may vary materially from those expected.

 



Information about potential factors, which could affect our results is available in the press release and the Risk Factors sections of the Company's SEC filings. Our statements are made as of today, April 22, 2021, and we assume no obligations to update any forward-looking statements. In addition, today's call includes discussions of certain non-GAAP financial measures. Tables reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures are available in the supplemental information package in the Investors section of the Company's website at crowncastle.com.Before I turn the call over to Jay, I want to mention that we will take as many questions as possible following our prepared remarks today, but we plan to limit the call to 60 minutes this morning. So with that, let me turn the call over to Jay.Jay A. Brown -- President And Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Ben, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us on the call. As you saw from our first quarter results and increased full-year outlook our consistent execution is delivering outstanding results as we support our customers' growth initiatives with their deployment of nationwide 5G in the U.S. Following a period of building excitement and anticipation, we have seen a significant increase in activity as our customers have started to upgrade their networks to 5G at scale. We expect this elevated level of activity to result in a year of outsized growth for Crown Castle, as we now anticipate 11% growth in AFFO per share for the full-year 2021, meaningfully above our long-term annual target of 7% to 8%.

 



Beyond 2021, I believe our strategy and unmatched portfolio of more than 40,000 towers, approximately 80,000 small cells on-air are committed in backlog, and 80,000 route miles of fiber concentrated in the top U.S. markets have positioned Crown Castle to generate growth in cash flows and dividends per share for years to come. Our strategy is to deliver the highest risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders by growing our dividend and investing in assets that will drive future growth. That focus has led us to invest in towers, small cells, and fiber assets that are all foundational for the development of 5G networks in the U.S.We believe the series of strategic agreements that we have announced in recent months further highlights the synergistic value our shared infrastructure provides to our customers. Building on the momentum from our recent 15-year agreement with DISH to support our nationwide 5G build-out, and our recent long-term 5G small cell agreement with Verizon to support their network deployments. We are excited to once again expand our strategic relationship with Verizon through a recent long-term tower leasing agreement. We believe this agreement will deliver significant value for both parties, as it establishes turns for leasing additional capacity on existing tower sites, with a structure that is intended to make it easier to expedite the deployment of C-band equipment over the next several years. The agreement also resulted in an increase in the average remaining current contracted lease term under our Verizon site leases to approximately 10 years. Dan will discuss the expected financial impact of this agreement later in the call.Turning back to our focus on generating superior long-term returns, one of our core principles of our strategy is to remain U.S. only because we believe it represents the best market for wireless infrastructure ownership since it has the most attractive growth profile and the lowest risk. And we believe this dynamic of higher growth and lower risk will continue into the future, which is why we expect our U.S-based strategy to drive significant returns for our shareholders.Starting with the higher growth we see in the U.S., the demand for our shared infrastructure offering across towers, small cells and fiber is tied to the robust demand for mobile data in the U.S., which continues to increase by more than 30% annually. Because the outlook is so compelling, the U.S. wireless market continues to attract a disproportionate amount of global capital investment. This is likely due in part to the fact that the durability and scale of wireless data growth in the U.S. has repeatedly outperformed expectations. I remember fielding questions from investors and analysts nearly a decade ago, trying to understand why we were not expanding our tower business and the less established international markets that offer the promise of outsized growth to compensate for the outsize risk.

 



The core set of assumptions underpinning that line of questioning included a view by many that it was inevitable that U.S. growth rates would flow. Leading to a desire to augment that growth by investing in international wireless markets, that hopefully would develop the same key set of fundamentals over time, that has made the U.S. market so successful for decades. We didn't buy into that argument at the time and sitting here today on the doorstep to 5G, we reach a similar conclusion that the U.S. is still among the highest growth markets for wireless infrastructure.Importantly, in a shared infrastructure business with long-term investment horizon, we have benefited from these superior growth rates while avoiding the risks associated with investment opportunities in less established international wireless market. These risks can have a meaningful impact on long-term returns and many have materialized in recent years, including the outsized churn due to less favorable industry dynamics relative to the U.S., sustained foreign currency devaluation that results in revenue churn, and disruptive social or governmental environments in less developed countries. Because we believe the U.S. has both greater potential for growth and lower risk, we are focused on growing cash flows on our 40,000 towers by providing access to existing and new customers that are building 5G wireless network.We are investing in new small cell and fiber assets that our customers need for their wireless networks, which we believe increases our ability to capitalize on the 5G growth trends in the U.S., and we are developing new capabilities and offerings that will leverage our existing assets to drive innovation. And we believe we'll further extend our growth opportunity, such as CBRS and edge computing. I believe that Crown Castle offer shareholders an unmatched opportunity to benefit from the launch of 5G wireless networks in the U.S.In the near to medium term, we expect to deliver outsized AFFO per share growth of 11% this year, as we translate this increasing 5G activity in the very attractive bottom-line growth. We expect to once again deliver the highest tower revenue growth rate in the U.S. among our public tower peers in 2021. And our customers are affirming the value we bring with our comprehensive portfolio of shared wireless infrastructure assets by entering into long-term agreements to access those assets. Longer term, we believe Crown Castle provides an exciting opportunity for shareholders to potentially compound double-digit total returns over a long period of time with a high-quality dividend that currently yields 3% and that we expect to be able to grow 7% to 8% annually.When I consider the durability of the underlying demand trends we see in the U.S. that provide significant visibility into the future growth for our business the deliberate decisions we have made to reduce the risk associated with our strategy, and our history of steady execution. I believe that Crown Castle stands out as a unique investment that will generate compelling returns over time.And with that, I'll turn the call over to Dan.Daniel K. Schlanger -- Executive Vice President And Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jay. Good morning, everyone. As Jay mentioned, we are excited to see our customers beginning to deploy 5G at scale. We have seen a significant increase in activity levels, leading the solid first quarter results that exceeded our expectations and support our increased full-year guidance. Turning to Slide 4 of our earnings presentation, you can see our strong top-line results were driven by more than 6% growth and organic contribution to site rental revenues. This growth included more than 9% growth from new leasing activity and contracted escalators, net of approximately 3% from non-renewals. We also generated a $23 million increase in contribution from services when compared to the first quarter 2020, culminating in 10% growth in adjusted EBITDA and 20% growth in AFFO per share on a year-over-year basis. Turning to Slide 5, we increased our full-year AFFO guidance by $40 million, reflecting a $25 million increase in expected services contribution, as a result of higher than expected tower activity levels and a $30 million reduction to interest expense following our successful recent refinancing activities partially offset by $15 million of additional labor-related costs, associated with the higher activity level. Additionally, as Jay discussed, we entered into a long-term tower leasing agreement with Verizon, that resulted in increasing the average current lease term of our Verizon tower site leases to approximately 10 years and adding straight lined revenue of approximately $140 million in 2021. Taking these changes into account, we now expect our adjusted EBITDA to be $150 million higher than our previously provided 2021 outlook. Our expectation for site rental revenue growth has increased to approximately 7%, inclusive of the expected organic contribution to site rental revenues of 6%, which remains unchanged.Our expectation for growth -- organic growth across towers, small cells and fiber solutions also remain consistent. With approximately 6% growth from towers approximately, 15% growth from small cells and approximately 3% growth from fiber solutions. Focusing on investment activities, during the first quarter capital expenditures totaled $302 million including $17 million of sustaining capital expenditures, $49 million of discretionary capital expenditures for our Tower segment and $225 million of discretionary capital expenditures for our Fiber segment.Our full-year expectation for capital expenditures remains unchanged at approximately $1.5 billion or less than $1 billion after customer capital contributions and we continue to expect to fund our discretionary investments this year with free cash flow and incremental borrowings. Turning to the balance sheet, we finished the first quarter at approximately 5.5 times, net debt to EBITDA and expect to exit 2021 at our target leverage for approximately 5 times, based on the anticipated growth in cash flows through the balance of the year.As Jay discussed, in addition to driving significant dividend growth, a key part of our strategy is to reduce the overall risk profile of the business to further enhance the value created for shareholders over time. Along with focusing on what we believe is the highest growth and lowest risk market in the world for wireless infrastructure ownership we have methodically reduced the risk profile of our balance sheet with the same goal of maximizing long-term shareholder value. With that in mind, we were able to opportunistically access the bond market during the first quarter to refinance upcoming maturities, reduce our debt cost and extend our maturity profile.Looking back 5 years, to when we achieved our initial investment grade credit rating and inclusive of our recent refinancing transaction, we have increased our debt mature -- average debt maturity to nearly 10 years from just over 5 years, reduced our average borrowing costs to 3.1% from 3.8% increased our mix of fixed-rate debt to more than 90% from just under 70% and reduced our reliance on secured debt to just 15% from nearly 50%. With limited upcoming debt maturities in the near term and more than $4 billion of undrawn capacity on revolving credit facility, we believe the balance sheet is positioned well to support our growth initiatives.Turning back to the growth side of the value equation and to wrap things up, we are excited about the increasing level of activity we are seeing, as our customers begin to deploy 5G at scale. Our customers continue to recognize this differentiated value, our comprehensive shared infrastructure offerings -- offering brings leading them to sign significant long-term agreements with us. We expect to once again generate industry leading U.S. tower revenue growth this year, and we expect to generate 11% growth in AFFO per share in 2021, which provides a very attractive total return opportunity when combined with the current 3% dividend yield. Importantly, we are generating these returns while making strategic investments in new small cell and fiber assets that we believe will add to our long-term growth opportunity. And with that, Vicki. I'd like to open the call to questions.