
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to The Kraft Heinz Company First Quarter Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Chris Jakubik, Head of Global Investor Relations for The Kraft Heinz Company. Please go ahead, sir.Christopher Jakubik -- Head of Global Investor RelationsThank you and hello everyone. This is Chris Jakubik, Head of Global Investor Relations at Kraft Heinz Company, and welcome to our Q&A session for our first quarter 2021 business update. As you know, during our remarks today, we will make some forward-looking statements that are based on how we see things today. Actual results may differ due to risks and uncertainties and these are discussed in our press release and our filings with the SEC. We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures today during the call and these non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a replacement for and should be read together with GAAP results. And you can find the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations within our earnings release.

 



Before we begin, I'm going to hand it over to our CEO, Miguel Patricio for a few quick opening remarks. Miguel?Miguel Patricio -- Chief Executive OfficerYeah. Well, thank you Chris. I just wanted to start our discussion today with a few overall thoughts. First, that we have had a very, very encouraging start of the year, both topline and bottom line with our strongest growth in priority platforms and markets, especially in under-developed countries with a very strong result. We were able to hold household penetration gains even as markets begin to open and effectively managing inflation and supply constraints. We are also very encouraged by our progress with the initiatives to accelerate our advantage in different areas like in marketing, be more agile and more creative in retail and foodservice joint business plans, in unlocking capacity in Grow and Energize platforms.And also on bringing efficiencies -- growth efficiency gains that we continue tracking to be about $400 million in the year. That said we feel that it's still too early to change our outlook for the full year. We could expect 2021 financials to be ahead of our strategic plan and we are expecting mid single-digit growth in Q2 2021 versus the same period in '19. At the same time, we should see stronger but manageable inflation beginning in Q2. Finally, we are pleased with additional financial flexibility that we are building. We continue to aggressively reduce debt and our divestures are on track to further increased flexibility.

 



I will now hand it back to the operator and we can start the Q&A.