
OperatorGood day, and welcome to Hartford's First Quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the conference over to Susan Spivak. Please go ahead.Susan Spivak Bernstein -- Senior Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you, Ian. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today for our call and webcast on first quarter 2021 earnings. This morning we reported results and posted all of the earnings-related materials on our website. For the call today, our speakers are Chris Swift, Chairman and CEO of The Hartford; Doug Elliot, President; and Beth Costello, Chief Financial Officer.

 



Following their prepared remarks, we will have a Q&A period. Just a few final comments before Chris begins. Today's call will include forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please note that no portion of this conference call may be reproduced or rebroadcast with -- in any form without The Hartford's prior written consent. All of the statements that we make today are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could be materially different. We do not assume any obligation to update information or forward-looking statements provided on this call. Investors should also consider the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from these statements. A detailed description of those risks and uncertainties can be found in our SEC filings.Our commentary today includes non-GAAP financial measures. Explanations and reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP measure are included in our SEC filings, as well as in the news release and financial supplement. Finally, please note that no portion of this conference call may be reproduced or rebroadcast in any form without The Hartford's prior written consent. Replays of this webcast and an official transcript will be available on The Hartford's website for one year.I'll now turn the call over to Chris.Christopher J. Swift -- Chairman & CEO

 



Thank you for joining us this morning. I want to start by saying that I have never been more excited about the future of The Hartford. In the first quarter, there were infrequent items that impacted reported results. However, the underlying performance of our business continues to reflect strong execution on key initiatives and improving margins. I'm extremely bullish about the prospects of growth and further margin expansion in the second half of 2021 and in 2022. The current macroeconomic environment and industry outlook favors The Hartford. And combined with the strength of our businesses, we are positioned to deliver accelerated growth and attractive returns for our shareholders.I'm now going to turn the call over to Doug and Beth, so they can provide some more commentary on the quarter. After their remarks, I will provide more details on our financial targets that we disclosed here today. So with that, Beth, I'll turn the call over to you.Beth Costello -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Chris. Earlier today, we reported first-quarter core earnings of $203 million or $0.56 per diluted share. Core earnings were down 58% in the quarter, primarily due to the impact of three significant items. First, we recognized unfavorable prior year development in P&C of $223 million before tax. The largest component of the adverse development was the impact of the settlement agreement with the Boy Scouts of America that we announced last week. Partially offsetting the unfavorable development was favorable development in other lines, primarily Workers' Compensation, Package business, and Personal Lines auto. Second, our first-quarter results were impacted by catastrophes of $214 million net of reinsurance. This includes $176 million from the February winter storms in Texas and other areas. Third, the quarter was impacted by Covid-related excess mortality in Group benefits of $185 million before tax and losses in Workers' Compensation and Financial Lines totaling $24 million. Aside from these three items, the performance of our businesses in the quarter remained very strong. In P&C, our underlying combined ratio of 89.4% improved 3.5 points from the first quarter of 2020, including improvements in both the loss and expense ratios. In Small Commercial, the underlying combined ratio of 88.3% improved by 1 point from first quarter 2020. Excluding Covid losses, margin improvement was largely driven by lower expenses from our Hartford Next initiatives.

 



Middle and large commercial underlying combined ratio of 95.3% improved 5.1 points from first quarter 2020, also benefiting from Hartford Next. In addition, lower non-CAT property losses and ex-Covid Workers' Compensation margin expansion contributed to the improved result. In Global Specialty, the underlying combined ratio of 89.9% improved 6.5 points from first quarter 2020, due to lower expenses and loss ratio improvement as rate increases continue to earn in across the businesses. In Personal Lines, the underlying combined ratio improved 3.1 points to 83.5% as the loss ratio improved by 3.4 points, driven by continued low frequency in auto. Expenses in the quarter increased by 40 basis points to 27.1% as the Hartford Next initiatives were more than offset by an increase in AARP direct marketing costs and the effect of lower earned premium.Now, turning to Group Benefits. As expected, results for the first quarter were significantly impacted by excess mortality related to the direct and indirect effects of Covid19. Since the end of last year, the number of reported US-Covid deaths continued to increase, peaking in January, and have since slowly declined. Results for the quarter include all-cause excess mortality of $185 million, $13 million of which relates to additional prior year losses. The excess mortality resulted in a reported loss of $3 million, and adversely impacted the core earnings margin by 9.5 points. Based on current declines in mortality and the impact of increasing vaccination rates, we expect excess mortality in the range of $40 million to $60 million in the second quarter. Disability results for the quarter were favorable. The loss ratio for the quarter was 68.4%, down 3.1 points from prior year, and reflected higher claim recoveries and lower disability claim incidences. Top-line results were solid and reflect strong sales and persistencies. And for the first time since second quarter of 2019, we reported year-over-year premium growth. Sales of $512 million for the quarter were greater than the prior year and reflect growth in all market segments. Paid family and medical leave continues to be a focus for us and was a contributor to the increase in sales. Persistency on the Combined Employers' block of business was approximately 91%. At Hartford Funds, core earnings for the quarter was $45 million, relatively flat with the prior year as an increase in fee income reflecting higher market levels was largely offset by higher operating costs. Mutual fund net flows were a positive $774 million in the quarter.As a reminder, the prior-year quarter included a benefit of $12 million before tax related to the reduction in contingent consideration associated with the acquisition of Lattice. The corporate core loss was $60 million in the first quarter 2021 compared to a loss of $64 million in the prior-year quarter due to lower interest expense and lower insurance operating costs and other expenses, partially offset by lower net investment income. Turning to investments. Net investment income was $509 million for the quarter, up 11% from the prior-year quarter, benefiting from strong limited partnership returns. The total annualized portfolio yield before tax was 3.8% compared to 3.7% in the first quarter of 2020. The annualized limited partnership return was 21.1% for the first quarter versus 13.2% in the prior-year quarter, driven by higher private equity returns.Net unrealized gains on fixed maturities before tax was $2.3 billion at March 31, down from $3.5 billion at December 31 due to higher interest rates. Book value per diluted share, excluding AOCI, rose 7.4% since March 31, 2020 to $47.31 and our trailing 12-month core earnings ROE was 10.9%. During the quarter, The Hartford returned $239 million to shareholders, including a $123 million of share repurchases and $116 million in common dividends paid. Today we announced that the Board has increased the share repurchase authorization by $1 billion, bringing the authorization through 2022 to $2.5 billion. Our expectation is to repurchase approximately $1.5 billion in 2021, subject to market conditions.I'll now turn the call over to Doug.Doug Elliot -- PresidentThanks, Beth. Over the past few years, I've shared a series of priorities providing updates along the way. To summarize, we have been increasing the breadth and depth of our product offerings, reshaping our portfolio, and investing in new capabilities for the benefit of customers, distribution partners, and our underwriters. The success of those efforts, supported by a firm ex-Workers Compensation pricing environment is producing consistent ex-Covid underlying margin expansion, including 4.3 points in quarter one. The global pandemic certainly interrupted the potential for top-line momentum in 2020, creating an important inflection point for 2021. First-quarter Property and Casualty written premium grew 2%, driven by a strong Commercial Lines result of 4%. I'm pleased with our underlying first-quarter results and what it portends for the rest of the year. I'll start with a few headlines before diving deeper into the micro-story. The P&C underlying combined ratio of 89.4% was outstanding. Commercial Lines produced a stellar ex-Covid underlying combined ratio of 90.1% and Personal Lines contributed with an underlying combined ratio of 83.5%. Small Commercial new business grew 12% during the first three months, contributing to our largest premium quarter ever. Spectrum's momentum continued with new written premium growth of 32%, a record new business level beating quarter four of 2020.April new business in Small Commercial also looks strong and we are encouraged by the tailwinds of increasing new business formations. According to the US Census, new business applications were up 62% in the first quarter. Global Specialty written premium increased 13%, including new business growth of 10%. With underwriting actions largely behind us, retention has improved across the board. In the quarter, the breadth of our growth was very strong, led by 18% in wholesale, 13% in US Financial Lines, and 29% in International. Global Re also had an excellent quarter with gross written premium growth of 12%. Across the franchise, cross-sell activities have been robust, outperforming our original deal expectations. Across our premium between Global Specialty and Middle Market business drove $23 million of new business in the first quarter and $157 million of new business since the Navigators' acquisition. This success has been fueled by our now broadened specialty capabilities, as well as deepened relationships with retail brokers. Over the last 18 months, we have added nearly 1,200 product lines and over 250 accounts for our customers that span both Middle Market and Global Specialty books. Further, our newly acquired retail excess capabilities have generated over $40 million of cross-sell premium. The results have been remarkable and we are just getting started. Although not a part of our original deal expectations, since the acquisition, we have also added nearly $20 million of Financial Lines premium for our small commercial customers.A few years ago, we set out to develop a broader and deeper product set. With the Navigators team fully integrated, we are delivering a more expansive set of solutions and realizing the benefits in our top-line results. Moving to pricing. I'm pleased with the continued strong performance. After several years of firming prices and underwriting actions, we have materially improved loss performance. As a proof point this quarter, Commercial Lines underlying ex-Covid loss ratio was 56.9%, 2.4 points better than quarter one of last year. Not surprisingly, rates flattened in certain lines as pricing adequacy has improved measurably. Global Specialty had another strong pricing quarter of 15% in the US and 28% in International. Middle Market ex-Workers' compensation rate change of 9% continues to exceed loss cost trend. Although down approximately 2 points from quarter four, reflecting a very competitive market. Policy Count retention is strong and Small Commercial up 2 points from the first quarter of last year. In Middle Market, with most of our underwriting initiatives behind us, Policy Retention was up 4 points over the first quarter 2020 result.Turning to Personal Lines. Written premium declined 4% in the quarter, driven in part by endorsements for lower miles driven, decreases in moving violations, and lower new vehicle sales. As the economy continues to rebound, all three of these factors are expected to provide a lift to top-line. In addition, the 2021 launch of our new Personal Lines auto product, Prevail, is critical to improving new business levels. A contemporary digital experience, flexibility, and advanced data analytics are all important and exciting elements of this new cloud-based platform. Prevail was released in Arizona and Illinois at the beginning of the month. We are very pleased with the early results and look forward to a late summer rollout in several more key states. The new home product will hit the market this summer. As I wrap up my comments, let me recap. We have been advancing toward this moment for the last five years, improving the depth and breadth of our product set, acquiring and developing talent, and building technological and digital capabilities. The marketplace and our top brokers are taking notice. Due to the ongoing pandemic, we again postponed our Annual Broker Summit meeting scheduled for this coming June. In its place, over the past three weeks, I have joined our leadership team in virtual regional discussions with nearly every VIP broker and agent of The Hartford. The feedback on our capabilities and front-line execution is exceptional. We led from the front during the pandemic, transparently managing difficult issues ranging from coverage and claim to operational flexibility. As one broker commented during the call, The Hartford has transformed itself over these last two years and has become our go-to-carrier. We are working hard to earn that position across the marketplace. I'm proud of the player we have become, delighted with the results we have produced, and excited about our future.Let me now turn the call over to Chris.Christopher J. Swift -- Chairman & CEOThank you, Doug and Beth. The iconic Hartford Brand was created over more than 200 years ago. It is a durable source of competitive advantage and a symbol of strength and confidence. Almost a decade ago, we initiated a strategic plan, which focused on two key goals. First, to divest low ROE market-sensitive and capital intensive Individual Life insurance and variable annuity businesses. Second, to focus on businesses where our market leadership position a long-term, sustainable competitive advantages, regenerate profitable growth, and superior returns. The first culminated with the sale of Talcott Resolution in 2018. The second goal was amplified by the 2017 acquisition of Aetna's Group Benefits business, which made us the number two player based on in-force premium. Then, the 2019 acquisition of Navigators enhanced our product depth and breadth across Commercial Lines and added new wholesale distribution. Fast forward to today, The Hartford is an industry leader with a diverse platform of complementary businesses, producing industry-leading results.As we move forward, we will leverage our capabilities and focus as we remain relentless in the pursuit of profitable growth. As evidence of our success from 2018 to 2020, EPS grew 16%. Book value per diluted share grew 20%, and we produced an average return on equity of 13%, more than 300 basis points above the peer average. As we emerge from the pandemic, we are confident that several macroeconomic factors will provide meaningful tailwinds, positioning our business for accelerated growth and improved returns. First, the emergence from the pandemic is expected to reduce excess mortality in our group life business and worker compensation losses in Commercial Lines. Secondly, rapidly improving expectations for unemployment, which could be below 5% by the end of this year, and GDP growth in the mid-to-high single-digits is expected to drive top-line growth in our employment-centric Workers' Compensation and group benefits businesses. An improving economy will become an additional catalyst of growth across our small commercial segment. Third, as the underwriting environment remains constructive, P&C commercial renewal pricing is expected to remain strong, thereby expanding margins. Finally, rising interest rates is anticipated to provide an incremental benefit to investment portfolio yields. This is a favorable macroeconomic environment for The Hartford to operate and compete in over the next couple of years.In Commercial Lines, we expect top-line growth to benefit from strong pricing, rising exposures due to the economic expansion, and investments in digital capabilities. We also anticipate that reduced operating expenses will continue to drive margin expansion across all our businesses. We are the market leader in Small Commercial, a highly sought after market segment. We consistently generate sub-90s underlying combined ratios which benefit from strong distribution, best-in-class products, efficient technology that eases the underwriting process for our agents and customers. New business sales from the recent launch of next-gen Spectrum product have been building momentum since the third quarter of 2020, generating a record level of sales this quarter. We are highly encouraged by our performance in this segment and new business growth potential.In Middle and Large Commercial, we expect growth to benefit from continued firm pricing, cross-selling from an expanded product set stemming from the Navigators acquisition, positive traction across specialized industry verticals, and technology investments. I'm particularly pleased with the cross-sell success that Doug referenced, along with enhanced underwriting tools and capabilities. In Global Specialty, the business continues to benefit from the robust pricing environment, improving margins, and retail cross-selling opportunities across standard Commercial Lines accounts. This quarter, Global Specialty produced written premium growth of 13%, and the underlying combined ratio was below 90. The Navigators acquisition is and will continue to be pivotal in driving growth and underwriting profits.In Personal Lines, growth is expected to be driven by the launch of the new auto and homeowners products, improved underwriting efficiencies, and a new cloud-based technology. Personal Lines margins, in 2020, were certainly helped by less miles driven during the pandemic, and is driving the returns to more normal levels. We expect to deliver profitable growth, enhanced by operating in expense efficiencies. In our Group Benefits business, we anticipate growth to be driven by higher employment levels, strong new sales, and growth in Voluntary and A&H products. This business, post-pandemic, is expected to produce strong core earnings and margins with a more stable mortality trends beginning in the second half of 2021. Across each of our businesses, improving operating efficiencies in a lower expense ratio from the Hartford Next program is a critical driver of margin expansion. In the second quarter of 2020, we detailed plans to achieve $500 million of savings by 2022. To date, the program has delivered $233 million of savings. Based on the program's success to date, we are increasing our pre-tax savings to approximately $540 million in 2022, and estimating in total, $625 million of savings in 2023. With the expectations for strong financial performance and capital generation, driven in part by the improving macroeconomic environment, we have increased our share repurchase authorization by $1 billion. Our expectation for 2021 is to repurchase $1.5 billion and the remaining balance in 2022.With top-line growth across the business, strong earned pricing trends in excess of loss cost, operating efficiencies, a reduced Covid impact, and continued capital management, we are targeting a core earnings ROE of approximately 13% to 14% in 2022 and into 2023. This ROE plan positions us to meaningfully outperform our peers. Before turning the call over to Q&A, let me address the unsolicited bids we have received from Chubb. Chubb delivered two additional letters to The Hartford since we announced the rejection of their $65 proposal back on March 23. The most recent letter outlined an offer of $70 dollars per share in cash and stock. We have disclosed letters in our Form 8-K filing, today. The Board reviewed each letter in consultation with its financial and legal advisors, and unanimously rejected each proposal, and concluded that engaging in discussions regarding a strategic transaction is not in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders. The Board has reaffirmed its confidence and conviction in the continued execution of The Hartford strategic business plan. As a result, The Hartford is singularly focused on executing against its goals and objectives and I will not comment further on the Chubb matter.As I said from the outset of my remarks, I'm extremely excited about the future of The Hartford and incredibly optimistic. We remain highly confident in our stand-alone plan. The Hartford franchise has never been better positioned to succeed and thrive. We expect to continue to deliver industry-leading financial performance, while creating value for all our stakeholders.With that, I'll turn the call over to Susan to begin the Q&A.Susan Spivak Bernstein -- Senior Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you, Chris. We have time now to take your questions. Operator, could you please repeat the instructions for asking a question.