  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the first quarter 2022 Mastercard earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Mr. Warren Kneeshaw, head of investor relations. Please go ahead.Warren Kneeshaw -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Jemiria. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2022 earnings call. With me today are Michael Miebach, our chief executive officer; and Sachin Mehra, our chief financial officer. Following comments from Michael and Sachin, the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&A session. It is only then that the queue will open for questions. You can access our earnings release, supplemental performance data and the slide deck that accompany this call in the Investor Relations section of our website, mastercard.com. Additionally, the release was furnished with the SEC earlier this morning. Our comments today regarding our financial results will be on a non-GAAP currency-neutral basis unless otherwise noted.Both the release and the slide deck include reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP reported amounts. Finally, as set forth in more detail in our earnings release, I would like to remind everyone that today's call will include forward-looking statements regarding Mastercard's future performance. Actual performance could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of the earnings release and in our recent SEC filings. A replay of this call will be posted on our website for 30 days. With that, I will now turn the call over to our chief executive officer, Michael Miebach. 

 



Michael Miebach -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Warren. Good morning, everyone. Russia's invasion of Ukraine marked a somber start to 2022 as war returned to Europe for the first time in decades. Given these extraordinary circumstances, we decided to suspend our business operations in Russia. We did not take this decision lightly given that Mastercard has operated in Russia for more than 25 years. We are now focused on the orderly suspension of business operations in Russia and supporting the well-being of our employees and their families across the whole region. Even in the context of this challenging geopolitical environment, we're off to a strong start in 2022. We delivered robust revenue and earnings growth with further improvement in our underlying operating metrics, notably in cross-border travel. Quarter 1 adjusted net revenues were up 27% and adjusted operating income up 40% versus a year ago on a non-GAAP currency-neutral basis. On the macroeconomic front, consumer spending remains strong, particularly as economies across the globe continue to reopen and pandemic-related restrictions are lifted. Labor markets are firm with low unemployment rates and rising wages. Weighing against this healthy backdrop are a number of factors that they are monitoring, including inflationary pressures, supply chain constraints, geopolitical uncertainties and COVID with infection rates.

 



 We're monitoring these developments, including the Cisco, monetary, public healthcare and other policy responses. Let's look at this from a geographic standpoint. U.S. retail spending remains healthy, aided in part by the buildup of excess savings during the pandemic. According to our Quarter 1 spending pulse report, which is based on all payment types, including cash and check, U.S. retail sales ex auto, ex gas, were up 4.7% versus a year ago. In Europe, spending trends are positive, although the invasion of Ukraine has introduced risks to economic growth looking ahead. Growth in Latin America continues to moderate following a strong rebound in 2021. Asia has generally lagged the recovery of other regions. We're seeing several countries relaxing COVID-related restrictions, while others are facing stronger measures. Asia continues to have significant upside potential. Looking at Mastercard spending trends. We continue to see strong growth. Domestic switched volumes or strength across a broad range of sectors, including retail, utilities and professional spend. We also saw strong growth in travel and entertainment, including spending with airlines, travel agencies, lodging and restaurants. In terms of cross-border, where the growth was particularly strong, the recovery continued this quarter led by travel. Cross-border travel reached 2019 levels as of March for the first time since the pandemic began. Geographically, the cross-border recovery has been broad-based with improvement across all regions. Cross-border card-not-present ex travel continues to be strong. Our strategy is designed to enable and capitalize on these trends and we're executing against our three key strategic priorities: one, expanding in payments; two, extending our services; and three, embracing new networks. Here is an update on how we're progressing against each of those. First, we're expanding in payments by continuing to grow card payments and leaning into innovation and new payment technologies to catch up other prioritized payment flows. We're driving growth in comp payments through new consumer, small business, co-brand and fintech wins. On the consumer and small business front, I'm excited to announce an enhanced partnership with Wells Fargo, which includes several new elements. Wells Fargo will now issue Mastercard small business credit cards and for the first time in almost a decade, consumer proprietary and co-brand credit products. We're also excited to announce that we have deepened our relationship with our long-standing partner, Capital One. In addition to renewing our existing business, we will also be their issuing network for a larger number of new originations across both their consumer and small business products. Further on the small business front, we are expanding our small business portfolio with First National Bank of Omaha. We're also partnering with the bank and Verizon to launch a new Verizon business Mastercard targeting Verizon's small business customers. In total, these partnerships will help us continue growing our U.S. small business market share. Outside the U.S., we're driving commercial card growth through new partnerships with leading B2B tech companies like Clara. We will be flipping Clara's business portfolio in Mexico to MasterCard and are working for them to launch new programs in five additional markets across Latin America. Turning to co-brands. We've made substantial progress to ensure we are well-positioned to capitalize on the return of travel. We have renewed and expanded our exclusive partnership with American Airlines, one of the largest co-brand programs in the United States. American will continue to leverage our capabilities, including SessionM and will participate in our star-powered program to identify new tech partners who can help drive innovation across the airline. And in the U.K., we have launched two new Mastercard Avios cards with Barclays and International Airlines Group, Loyalty. Outside of travel, we've expanded our relationships with leading retailers, including a new co-brand program with Victoria's Secret and a renewal of our Ulta Beauty co-brand offering, both in partnership with Red Financial. We're also continuing to advance our leadership in the digital and fintech space through new product launches and new partnerships. We're partnering with BCA Digital, the digital banking arm of the largest private bank in Indonesia, to launch a digital-first Mastercard debit product catering to millennials. And in Latin America, we signed a regional partnership with global payment processing platform, Galileo. The partnership establishes Mastercard as Galileo's preferred partner across several markets in Latin America, and they will work to integrate and distribute several of our products and services to help their fintech customers. In addition to driving new wins, we are leveraging our services capabilities to execute against many of the large portfolio migrations that are in flight. In Europe, our consulting teams are engaging with our partners at Santander, NatWest and Deutsche Bank to ensure a smooth and timely transition and to identify opportunities to optimize those portfolios. Santander is the bulk of the way through a 9 million card migration and we expect it to be complete by early next year, while NatWest commenced the issuance of Mastercard at the end of last year and plans to migrate their entire 16 million card portfolio by the middle of 2023. Deutsche Bank's $10 million consumer and commercial credit and debit cards will be reissued as Mastercard-branded cards with a credit migration starting in Quarter 4 of this year and a debit migration commencing early next year. Similarly, our team in the U.S. is supporting key migrations, including Gap Inc., Merrick Bank and First Interstate Bank. All the migrations are on track with Gap Inc.'s scheduled to be completed this summer. We're also expanding in payments by leaning into payments innovation in areas like installments and cryptocurrencies. Here are a few examples. Our open-LEAF Mastercard installments program has been very well received and is progressing according to plan. Remember, Mastercard installment is built into our network, making by Buy Now Pay Later available to millions of consumers and merchants worldwide. We continue to add a wide array of new lender and fintech partners, including Amount, Deserve, i2c, Lithic and Sutton Bank. In this quarter, we announced several merchant partners who are excited to support Mastercard installments, including Bass Pro Shops and Cabela's, H&R Block, Saks Fifth Avenue and Walgreens. U.S. customers will begin offering Mastercard installments to consumers this quarter, and international expansion is planned for later this year. And we continue to build solutions to support the crypto economy with a principled approach focused on three key areas. First, helping consumers easily and safely purchase cryptocurrencies and NFTs. In addition, we are enabling consumers to spend their crypto holdings on card and cashing out their crypto wallets via Mastercard Send. Second, providing identity, cyber and consulting services for market participants, including engaging with central banks as they design and develop central bank digital currencies. Third, preparing our core network to directly support digital currencies. Making substantial progress in each of these areas. This quarter, the Gemini Mastercard, which offers crypto rewards went live across the U.S. We're also fond of its Nexo to launch a new crypto card in Europe, one that uses consumers' digital assets as collateral to back their credit line. And we established several other international Crypto Card partnerships, including banks in Europe, and Abra, Invesco and Belo in Latin America. On the crypto services front, MercadoLibre will be leveraging CipherTrace's AI and cyber capabilities to bring security and trust to their digital wallet in Brazil. Now turning to our second strategic priority, services. As I've noted before, our services support can differentiate our core products and have played a critical role, enabling many of the wins I mentioned. We also continue to extend our services across multiple growth vectors through new payment platform capabilities, new verticals and new use cases. Here are a few examples. First, earlier this month, we completed our acquisition of Dynamic Yield. Now that the transaction is closed, we will combine Dynamic Yield personalization platform and decision engine within our SessionM loyalty platform and our test-and-learn experimentation software. The result will be a truly differentiated consumer engagement and loyalty hub for our customers. Second, we announced that we're expanding our consulting services into three new practices dedicated to Open Banking and Open Data, crypto and digital currencies and ESG. We've seen increased customer demand and a growing portfolio of successful engagements in these areas. For example, we are supporting Handelsbanken and Intesa Sanpaolo design programs that advance their ESG priorities. We're helping Wirex explore innovations in crypto. And finally, we're expanding the breadth of our customer base and deploying our capabilities to solve for a wider range of use cases. For example, we deployed our test and learn capabilities to help tailored brands optimize retail operations and improve marketing efficiency for the leading menswear brands. And we deployed our fintech capabilities with Santander in Spain to help streamline dispute resolutions and improve the customer experience. Beyond expanding in payments and extending in services, our third key priority area is embracing new networks. Our current focus is on two areas: Open Banking and Digital Identity. Our Open Banking and multi-rail strategies are converging, enabling us to leverage our unique set of assets to address new flows in verticals like rent payments. For rent payments, the risk of ACH returns due to insufficient funds is a significant pain point in both renters and landlords. To address this challenge. We're launching a new suite of smart payment decisioning tools. These solutions use Finicity's open banking capabilities to recommend the optimal payment day and payment rail for each transaction based on cost, speed and risk. The Bill Payment Alliance, a collection of more than 2 million rental homes will be one of the first fintech partners to launch these capabilities. And we plan to expand these solutions across a broad range of bill payment verticals. In addition, we continue to extend our open banking reach with Finicity and Aiia by penetrating new verticals and establishing new partnerships. We continue to enhance our capabilities at the mortgage vertical and are now expanding into the auto lending vertical. We're leading the way in terms of provisioning permission-based income, employment and asset verification information, and we've partnered with Stripe, who will be using our open banking capabilities for a variety of use cases. We're also extending our open banking reach through data access agreements with partners like Fiserv, which will enable direct API connectivity to thousands of FIs in the United States. In the Digital Identity space, in contrast, continued its strong performance in Quarter 1, securing deals with financial services companies, including Moneyline and several leading Buy Now Pay Later providers. In addition, we recently joined forces with Microsoft on a collaboration to improve digital transaction approval rates and reduce fraud. The solution enables issuers to optimize authorization decisions using network and merchant-specific authentication data. Combined, open banking and digital identity extend our value before and after the payment transaction and into new digital transactions. These are attractive and growing opportunities, and we are uniquely positioned to be successful in both. In summary, our business fundamentals remain strong, and we delivered robust revenue and earnings growth again this quarter, which also reflects our disciplined approach to expense management. We're executing against our strategic priorities, notably expanding our share with key issuers. In addition, we've worked hard to expand our travel-oriented portfolios which positions us well to capitalize on a strong recovery in cross-border travel. And last but not least, we want to reflect on what is most important. The safety and well-being of our employees and their families who have been impacted by the war. Our thoughts are with them and the people of Ukraine. Sachin, over to you.Sachin Mehra -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Michael. Turning to Page 3, which shows our financial performance for the quarter on a currency-neutral basis, excluding special items and the impact of gains and losses on our equity investments. Net revenue was up 27%, reflecting the continued execution of our strategy and the ongoing recovery in spending. Acquisitions contributed 2 ppt to this group. These revenues were above expectation, primarily due to stronger-than-expected cross-border and domestic volumes, favorable cross-border mix and FX-related revenues. Operating expenses increased 13%, including a 6 ppt increase from acquisitions. Operating income was up 40%, which includes a 1 ppt decrease related to acquisitions. Net income was up 61%, which includes a 20 ppt benefit due to the recognition of a one-time discrete tax benefit related to a U.S. tax regulation published in the current period and a 1 ppt decrease from acquisitions. EPS was up 65% year over year to $2.76, which includes a $0.36 contribution from the one-time discrete tax benefit and a $0.05 contribution from share repurchases. During the quarter, we repurchased $2.4 billion worth of stock and an additional $599 million through April 25, 2022. So let's turn to Page 4, where you can see the operational metrics for the first quarter. Worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV increased by 17% year over year on a local currency basis. Of note, data related to sanctioned Russian banks was not reported to us and hence, such amounts are not included in Q1 2022. In the U.S., GDV increased by 14% with credit growth of 31% and debit growth of 1%, reflecting the recovery of credit spending on travel and the lapping of stimulus. Outside of the U.S. volume increased 19% with credit growth of 20% and debit growth of 18%. Cross-border volume was up 53% globally for the quarter with intra-Europe cross-border volumes up 50% and other cross-border volumes up 56%, reflecting continued improvement in travel-related cross-border. For the first time since the onset of the pandemic, cross-border volume was above 2019 levels for all regions and cross-border travel was above 2019 levels for the first time in March. Turning now to Page 5. Switched transactions grew 22% year over year in Q1 and were at 150% of 2019 levels. Card-present and card-not-present growth rates remain strong. Card-present growth was aided in part by increases in contactless penetration in several regions. With respect to card counts, as a result of the suspension of our business operations in Russia, cards issued by Russian banks are no longer active on our network and are therefore excluded from our card counts this quarter. Accordingly, card growth was lower at 4% this quarter. If you exclude Russian-issued cards from current and prior years, card growth would have been 9%. Globally, there are 2.9 billion Mastercard and Maestro-branded cards issued. Now let's look to Page 6 with our highlights on the revenue line items, again described on a currency-neutral basis, excluding special items, unless otherwise noted. The increase in net revenue of 27% was primarily driven by domestic and cross-border transaction and volume growth as well as growth in services, partially offset by growth in rebates and incentives. Acquisitions contributed approximately 2 ppt to this growth. I'd also like to point out that in the first quarter, the suspension of business operations in Russia had a minimal impact to the overall growth rate of the company as the loss of volume was offset by a one-time benefit of lower rebates and incentives due to the absence of a customer incentive agreement renewal in Russia. Looking quickly at the individual revenue line items. Domestic assessments were up 21%, while worldwide GDV grew 17%. The 4 ppt difference is primarily due to unreported volumes from Russian-related sanction customers and a favorable mix. Cross-border volume fees increased 57%, while cross-border volumes increased 53%, both ahead of expectations. The full ppt difference is primarily due to favorable mix as higher-yielding ex intra-Europe cross-border volumes grew faster than intra-Europe cross-border volumes this quarter. Transaction processing fees were up 27%, while switched transactions grew 22%. The 5 ppt difference is primarily due to favorable cross-border mix and FX-related revenues. Other revenues were up 20%, including a 7 ppt contribution from acquisitions. The remaining growth was driven by our Cyber & Intelligence and Data & Services solutions. Finally, rebates and incentives were up 30%, reflecting the strong growth in volumes and transactions and new and renewed deal activity. As a percentage of gross revenues, rebates and incentives were lower than expected primarily due to the absence of a planned customer incentive agreement renewal in Russia, a higher mix of cross-border revenues and the timing of new internode deals. Moving to Page 7. You can see that on a currency-neutral basis, total operating expenses increased 13%, including a 6 ppt impact from acquisitions. Excluding acquisitions, operating expenses grew 7%, primarily due to increased spending on advertising and marketing, higher personnel costs to support the continued investment in our strategic initiatives and increased data processing costs. Turning to Page 8. Let's discuss the operating metrics for the first three weeks of April. For your reference to help you understand the trends in the business ex Russia, we have included an appendix later in this deck to show all the data points from the schedule if you excluded activity from Russian-issued cards from current and prior periods. Going through the metrics in turn. Starting with switched volumes. For the first three weeks of April, we grew 23% year over year, down 4 ppt versus Q1, primarily due to the cessation of activities in Russia. If you exclude Russia-related volumes from the current and prior periods, switched volumes grew 27%, down 1 ppt versus Q1. Switched transactions grew 14% year-over-year through the first three weeks of April, down 8 ppt from Q1, again, driven primarily by the absence of Russia-related transactions. Of note, Russia has a relatively low average ticket size, which results in a larger relative impact to this metric. If you exclude Russia-related transactions from the current and prior periods, switched transactions grew by 25% year over year, up 1 ppt versus Q1. Overall, cross-border volumes through the first 3 weeks of April grew 60% year over year, up 7 ppt versus Q1. Excluding Russia from the current and prior periods, cross-border volumes through the same period grew 65% year over year, up 13 ppt versus Q1. Since the end of January, cross-border travel has rebounded quickly as border restrictions continue to be lifted and we distance ourselves from Omicron. In the first three weeks of April, cross-border travel was up 179% year over year, up 38 ppt versus Q1. Cross-border card-not-present, excluding travel, was up 5% year over year in April, a decrease of 8 ppt compared to Q1, reflecting in part the lapping of a strong comparable period a year ago. One point to emphasize is cross-border travel is now above pre-pandemic levels at 110% of 2019 levels. Turning to Page 9. I want to share our thoughts on the remainder of 2022. Let me start by saying that our business fundamentals remain strong as we continue to grow our customer relationships and expand our product and service offerings. As Michael mentioned, consumer spending remains robust, particularly as economies open further and pandemic-related restrictions are lifted. Having said this, we are monitoring a number of factors, including inflationary pressures, supply chain constraints, geopolitical uncertainties and COVID infection rates. At this stage, we have not seen any significant impact of these in consumer spending. Cross-border travel is recovering rapidly as border restrictions ease. This is occurring faster than our earlier expectations. We are well-positioned to capitalize on this growth with our travel-oriented portfolios. Weighing against these positive trends are the impacts of the war in Ukraine and the suspension of our business operations in Russia. So now taking all of this into account, we continue to expect net revenues for full year 2022 to grow at the high end of a high teens rate on a currency-neutral basis, excluding acquisitions and special items. So essentially, we are maintaining our growth expectations in the same range as the strong cross-border travel recovery and strength in consumer spending helped mitigate the loss of sizable revenues in Russia and Ukraine. Acquisitions are forecasted to add about 1 ppt to this growth, while foreign exchange is expected to be a headwind of 3 to 4 ppt for the year, primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro. In terms of operating expenses, we are reducing our forecast for the year to reflect cost savings related to Russia. All year, we expect operating expenses to grow at a high single-digit rate on a currency-neutral basis, excluding acquisitions and special items. Acquisitions are forecast to add about 4 to 5 ppt to this growth, while foreign exchange is expected to be a tailwind of approximately 2 to 3 ppt for the year. With respect to the second quarter, year-over-year net revenue is expected to grow at the high end of a high teens rate, again, on a currency-neutral basis, excluding acquisitions. This reflects closely strong consumer spending, including continued improvement in cross-border travel spending relative to 2019; secondly, the discontinuation of revenues from Russia and a sequential reduction in revenues related to Ukraine; and finally, the lapping of a strong year and a good quarter that was aided by fiscal stimulus and the easing of pandemic-related restrictions as vaccination programs rolled out. Acquisitions are forecast to add about 1 ppt to this growth, while foreign exchange is expected to be a headwind of approximately 5 to 6 ppt for the quarter. From an operating expense standpoint, we expect Q2 operating expenses to grow at a high single-digit rate versus a year ago on a currency-neutral basis, excluding acquisitions and special items. Acquisitions are forecast to add about 4 to 5 ppt to this growth, including the acquisition of Dynamic Yield, which we are pleased to have just closed. Foreign exchange is expected to be a tailwind of approximately 3 to 4 ppt for the quarter. Other items to keep in mind, on the other income and expense line, we are at an expense run rate of approximately $115 million per quarter, given the prevailing interest rates and our recent debt issuance. This excludes gains and losses on our equity investments, which are excluded from our non-GAAP metrics. And finally, we expect a tax rate of approximately 18% to 19% for each of the remaining quarters of the fiscal year based on the current geographic mix of our business. Before closing out, I want to briefly comment on our three-year performance objectives for 2022 to 2024. Clearly, the elimination of Russia-related revenues and the reduction of those from Ukraine create a headwind to achieving these objectives. If this would continue, it would result in a headwind of approximately 2 ppt to our net revenue CAGR. Having said this, we are off to a strong start in 2022 with the recovery of cross-border travel ahead of expectations, as I previously mentioned. We remain focused on building long-term sustainable growth for the company. And net-net, it is really too early to adjust our three-year performance objectives as we work to offset some or all of these headwinds. And with that, I will turn the call back over to Warren.Warren Kneeshaw -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, Sachin. Jemiria, we are now ready for the question-and-answer session. 