  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to Halliburton's second-quarter 2021 earnings call. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to Abu Zeya, head of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Abu Zeya -- Head of Investor Relations Good morning, and welcome to the Halliburton second-quarter 2021 conference call. [Operator instructions] Joining me today are Jeff Miller, chairman, president, and CEO; and Lance Loeffler, CFO. Some of our comments today may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events. These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.

 



 These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2021, recent current reports on Form 8-K, and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. Our comments today also include non-GAAP financial measures. Additional details and reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our second-quarter earnings release and can also be found in the Quarterly Results and Presentation section of our website.[Operator instructions] Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff. Jeff Miller -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Abu, and good morning, everyone. Our performance in the second quarter demonstrates that our clear strategy is working well and Halliburton's strategic priorities are driving value. Let's get right to the highlights. Total company revenue increased 7% sequentially as both North America and international top line continue to improve.

 



 Operating income grew 17% with solid margin performance in both divisions. Our completion and production division revenue increased 10%, driven by the strength in U.S. land completions. C&P delivered operating margin of 16% in the second quarter, reaching three-year highs. Our drilling and evaluation division revenue grew 5%. Operating margin of 11% was about flat sequentially, with rig count increases across multiple regions offsetting a seasonal decline in software sales. North America revenue grew 12% as both drilling and completions activity marched higher throughout the quarter. Increased utilization and our significant operating leverage supported sequential margin expansion. International revenue grew 4% sequentially, with activity increasing in the key producing regions of the world despite COVID-19 disruptions in various countries. Finally, we generated strong free cash flow this quarter, bringing the year-to-date free cash flow to almost $425 million. I'm pleased with the solid performance we delivered in the first half of this transition year. While recent market volatility only demonstrates the fact that we remain in a transition year, today, I want to spend more time discussing what I believe will unfold over the next couple of years. First, let me reaffirm the outlook for the rest of this year. In the second half of 2021, we expect activity momentum to continue. Internationally, we still anticipate a double-digit increase in activity compared to the second half of 2020, even as certain countries continue to face COVID disruptions. With commodity prices remaining supportive, we believe activity in North America inches higher with drilling outpacing completions as operators build up well inventory for 2022.

 



 Looking beyond this year, let me describe the longer-term outlook. We believe that we are in the early innings of a multiyear upcycle. For the first time in seven years, we anticipate simultaneous growth in international and North America markets, and this view guides our business objectives and expected outcomes. So here's how we see the macro industry environment playing out over the next couple of years. First, we believe commodity prices will remain structurally supportive. With both demand resurgence in many economies and increased vaccine availability, we anticipate that global demand will continue to exceed supply, particularly to the extent OPEC Plus manages supply additions over the near term. As OPEC Plus' spare capacity returns to normalized levels over the next year, we believe sufficient pent-up global oil demand will support a call on both international and U.S. production. Second, multiple years of underinvestment in the international markets, coupled with the anticipated oil and gas demand growth, give us confidence in a healthy international recovery. I believe the growth will be led by the national oil companies and focused on shorter cycle barrels. This activity should come with higher service intensity and higher relative capital spend around the wellbore as opposed to long cycle infrastructure investments. We expect mature fields, both onshore and offshore, to attract the most investment, while large-scale greenfield exploration will be limited to a few markets in Africa and Latin America. As a result, we anticipate double-digit annual international spending growth at least over the next couple of years. Third, we believe that a supportive commodity price environment, normalized levels of spare OPEC plus capacity, and high decline rates in U.S. shale are constructive for North American spending. We expect drilling and completion spending in North America will also grow double digits annually over the next two years, although activity will not return to pre-pandemic levels. We expect private operators to opportunistically lead the activity to come back, while public E&Ps balance growth and returns. Fourth, I believe equipment availability will tighten much faster than most people think. In multiple product lines, we believe that equipment supply will fall behind anticipated demand. Today, both drilling and completions equipment are nearing tightness in North America. And we expect to see international markets tighten over the next few quarters. Given the scarcity of external capital sources, many North American service companies do not currently generate sufficient cash to organically fund investment in new equipment, innovation, and maintenance, let alone generate sufficient returns. Internationally, multiple years of service company CAPEX reductions should limit equipment availability. We expect increasing demand and tightening equipment capacity will lead to higher prices. Pricing is beginning to return in North America now and is expected to lag internationally where contract durations are longer. I know the positive macro outlook I just described is a case for the rising tide lifting all boats. However, what matters is how Halliburton is positioned to outperform in this market. The improving macro environment marks the first time in a long time that we see an increasing level of customer urgency and they pivot back to what creates value in our industry, and this reinforces the power of Halliburton's unique value proposition. Throughout the downturn, Halliburton doubled down on our value proposition to collaborate and engineer solutions to maximize asset value for our customers. We continue to invest in technology, both digital and hardware, that maximizes value per barrel of production. We are expanding in new market segments. We are uniquely positioned in North America as the only integrated service company. Our collaborative culture and engineered solutions create a sustainable competitive advantage, setting Halliburton up to move from value creation to value capture. Here are a few examples of how Halliburton creates and captures value through our digital technologies. We are accelerating the deployment and integration of digital both with our customers and internally. It creates technical differentiation, contributes to higher margins, and drives internal efficiencies. Over the first six months of this year, we grew the total user count on our iEnergy public cloud by 70%, and cloud revenue now constitutes almost 20% of our overall software revenues. We believe that this shift from on-prem to cloud software solutions drives faster growth. It also allows us to expand our revenue base with the same customers as we add new cloud-native applications and increase the number of users within the same operator. Digital technology enables high-value remote and autonomous operations. We see steady growth of our remote monitoring of open-hole wireline operations. For example, this past quarter, we deployed virtual remote logging capabilities on a remote location in Continental Europe, utilizing a wellsite specialist in Norway to remotely operate downhole tools. Virtual remote logging allows us to place highly specialized personnel at regional hubs rather than in the field, which leads to better resource utilization, fewer personnel at the wellsite, less HSE exposure, and higher margins. We also deployed digital and automation in our drilling operations across the globe, both on discrete and integrated contracts. Over 75% of our iCruise drilling system runs are fully automated today, and we expect all runs to have some automation by the end of this year. Across Europe and Eurasia, we increased the number of automated jobs fivefold since the beginning of this year. Drilling automation directly translates to top-tier customer performance. For example, over the last two years, it allowed us to improve the rates of penetration by approximately 25% on the Middle East lump sum turnkey project and on another integrated contract in the North Sea. Moreover, digitalization and automation improved the resource efficiency of our own operations. In the second quarter, on an NOC project in Russia, we reduced rig site personnel by 40%. Separately, for an IOC in the Caspian, we captured cost efficiencies through using a remote operation center to monitor and control drilling jobs. Halliburton's differentiated drilling technologies penetrate the market and deliver results for our customers. Our multiyear investment in drilling technologies is paying off, and we believe we are on the right path to outgrow the market as international drilling activity ramps up. Our drilling technologies deliver top-quartile performance on discrete contracts and form the core of our integrated project management offering. This past quarter, on a challenging gas project on Russia's Yamal Peninsula, the Halliburton project management team drilled eight horizontal wells 36 days ahead of plan with zero HSE incidents. In close collaboration with our customers, we maximized drilling performance and accelerated the operator's production. And lastly, we deployed digital solutions to optimize production. In the second quarter, we won a contract that highlights the enormous opportunity for digital adoption in the Middle East. After many years of collaboration with Halliburton on its digital transformation journey, Kuwait Oil Company expanded our automated production management contract in North Kuwait to all other assets in the country. KOC will use DecisionSpace 365, Halliburton's cloud-based subscription service for E&P applications, to automate work processes and accurately plan, forecast, and optimize production throughout KOC's portfolio. We are also expanding in new market segments. We expect to benefit from the significant growth potential of our specialty chemicals and artificial lift businesses, both in North America and internationally. As Halliburton increases participation in these new segments, we believe we will enjoy unique growth opportunities that are margin accretive and longer cycle. I'm pleased to announce that in the second quarter, Halliburton was awarded a seven-year production chemicals contract with a large IOC in Oman. Products for this new contract will be manufactured at Halliburton's new Saudi chemical reaction plant scheduled to open later this year. The strategic location of this plant will allow us to manufacture and sell specialty chemicals to other new customers throughout the region. In North America, we recently expanded our footprint in the downstream process and water treatment chemicals business through awards of two separate five-year specialty chemicals contracts for large refiners on the Gulf Coast. In our growing international artificial lift business, earlier this month, we completed the first installation of our ESP contract in Kuwait. We believe this contract gives us scale in the region that will allow us to profitably grow our artificial lift business in other key markets. Finally, Halliburton has the broadest market exposure because we remain the only integrated service provider active in both North America and international markets. I believe this unique position allows us to capitalize on the double-digit growth, equipment tightness and resulting in better service pricing in both markets. In the international markets, we expect that Halliburton's differentiated drilling equipment capacity tightens first. Over the next few quarters, as large tenders soak up capacity, I expect to return to the pre-pandemic environment when pricing improved in certain markets. In North America, specific equipment categories are already tight today. There is a high demand for low emissions frac equipment and the supply is limited. Halliburton leads the market in low emission solutions today, and that gives us a structural pricing advantage to further maximize value in North America. Halliburton showcased our market-leading low emission solutions at a recent event in Duncan, Oklahoma. Over the course of five days, several hundred people from more than 40 operators came to see our electric and dual fuel equipment displays and operational demonstrations, including our 5,000 horsepower Zeus electric pumping unit our new ExpressBlend blending system, EEC electric wireline unit, the Electric Tech Command Center and an effective power generation solution. They didn't just see R&D plans and prototypes. Instead, they witnessed functional, job-ready equipment that works for our customers today and delivers unprecedented fracturing performance and reduced emissions. The Duncan event also showcased our SmartFleet intelligent fracturing system. SmartFleet marries our digital capabilities and fracturing expertise to do what was not possible until now, give customers control over fracturing performance in real time. It sets us apart from the rest of the hydraulic fracturing market and solidifies our industry leadership in intelligent fracturing. In the second quarter, we deployed it with two IOC customers in two different U.S. basins with excellent results. Operators achieved more consistent fracturing placement on every stage, with improved cluster uniformity and management of offset frac hits. SmartFleet, paired with our premium low emissions equipment creates a powerful combination of Halliburton's leading technologies to deliver superior production results, reduce environmental impact and drive a strong margin differential for Halliburton. We believe that our unique value proposition, combined with customer urgency and equipment tightness in the U.S. and international markets, will improve pricing for our differentiated equipment and services. As our equipment reaches sustained levels of higher utilization in North America, we are now moving from passing on inflationary cost increases to setting net pricing higher. And we expect this trend to accelerate into 2022. Internationally, pricing will take longer to catch up to North America and will first manifest itself on discrete contracts in underserved markets. We expect large tenders to remain competitive, but our strategic priority is clear: deliver profitable growth as the recovery unfolds. We expect improved pricing, higher utilization, and our significant operating leverage will deliver strong incrementals for Halliburton in this upcycle. In the face of both current and expected demand increases, we remain focused on improved returns and capital efficiency and expect our overall capital investment to stay in the range of 5% to 6% of revenue. Now let's step back for a minute and think about what this means for Halliburton. My remarks often focus on the practical view of the near term, but I also have conviction about Halliburton's performance in the early innings of this upcycle. Based on the market assumptions outlined earlier, we expect revenue to grow at a mid-teens compound annual growth rate over the next two years. We also expect operating margins to expand by about 400 basis points by 2023 and thus return to 2014 margin levels. We are committed to driving significant free cash flow and returns for our shareholders as this multiyear upcycle unfolds. This earnings power results from the execution of Halliburton's strategic priorities. I'm confident that our focus on technology differentiation, digital adoption, and capital efficiency positions us for profitable growth internationally and maximizing value in North America. Now I will turn the call over to Lance to provide more details on our second-quarter financial results. Lance?Lance Loeffler -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jeff, and good morning. Let me begin with a summary of our second-quarter results compared to the first quarter of 2021. Total company revenue for the quarter was $3.7 billion and operating income was $434 million, an increase of 7% and 17%, respectively. Higher equipment utilization and our significant operating leverage supported these strong results as rig counts moved up globally in the second quarter. Now let me take a moment to discuss our division results in a little more detail. Starting with our completion and production division, revenue was $2 billion, an increase of 10%, while operating income was $317 million, or an increase of 26%. These improvements were driven by higher activity across multiple product service lines in North America land, improved cementing activity in the Eastern Hemisphere and Latin America, increased completion tool sales in the Middle East, the North Sea, and Latin America, as well as higher well intervention services in Saudi Arabia and Algeria. These improvements were partially offset by lower stimulation activity in Latin America. In our drilling and evaluation division, revenue was $1.7 billion, an increase of 5%, while operating income was $175 million, or an increase of 2%. These results were driven by improved drilling-related services and wireline activity across all regions, along with increased testing services in the Eastern Hemisphere. Partially offsetting these improvements was reduced software sales globally. Moving on to our geographic results. In North America, revenue increased 12%, primarily driven by higher pressure pumping services, drilling-related services, and wireline activity in North America land, as well as higher well construction activity in the Gulf of Mexico. Partially offsetting these increases were reduced software sales across the region. Turning to Latin America. Revenue was flat sequentially, primarily driven by increased activity in multiple product service lines in Mexico, higher fluid services in Brazil as well as additional completion tool sales in Guyana. These results were offset by lower stimulation activity in Argentina, Mexico, and Brazil; decreased software sales across the region; and lower project management activity in Mexico and Ecuador. In Europe/Africa/CIS, revenue increased 7%, resulting from increased activity across multiple product service lines in Russia, Norway, Algeria, and Ghana. These increases were partially offset by lower software sales across the region and lower activity in Nigeria. In the Middle East/Asia region, revenue increased 5%, resulting from improved activity in multiple product service lines in Saudi Arabia, improved well intervention services across the region, increased drilling-related services in Oman, higher completion tool sales in Kuwait, improved well construction activity in Australia and increased pipeline services in China. These improvements were offset by lower software sales across the region, reduced project management activity in India, and lower overall activity in Bangladesh. In the second quarter, our corporate and other expenses totaled $58 million. For the third quarter, we expect our corporate expense to remain largely unchanged. Net interest expense for the quarter was $120 million and should remain flat for the third quarter. We remain focused on reducing our leverage in the near term and recently announced the redemption of our remaining 2021 senior notes at par ahead of schedule in August using cash on hand, which should reduce interest expense beyond the third quarter. Our effective tax rate for the second quarter came in better than expected at approximately 22%, benefiting from several one-time discrete items. Based on our anticipated geographic earnings mix, we expect our third quarter effective tax rate to be approximately 25%. Capital expenditures for the quarter were approximately $190 million and will continue to ramp up for the remainder of the year. However, we will stay within our full-year target of 5% to 6% of revenue. Turning to cash flow, we generated $409 million of cash from operations and $265 million of free cash flow during the second quarter. We believe that our year to date and expected earnings performance for the remainder of the year, combined with efficient working capital management, should result in a full-year free cash flow of approximately $1.2 billion. The growth in earnings outlook that Jeff laid out positions us well to grow our free cash flow over the next couple of years. Now let me turn to our near-term outlook. In the international markets, we expect a steady increase in activity as the rig counts continue to recover. In North America, we anticipate modest pricing improvement and continued activity momentum in both completions and drilling but sequential activity growth will be slower than in prior quarters. As a result, for our completion and production division, we anticipate high single-digit revenue growth sequentially, with margins expected to modestly increase by 25 to 50 basis points. In our Drilling and Evaluation division, we anticipate sequential revenue growth of 3% to 5% and due to continued rig count increases globally and a margin increase similar to that of our C&P division. I will now turn the call back over to Jeff. Jeff?Jeff Miller -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Lance. Before I wrap up our discussion today, I want to thank our employees for their terrific execution on our value proposition, dedication to Halliburton, and excellent service delivery for our customers. Now let me summarize what we believe and expect will unfold. We are in the early innings of a multiyear upcycle as oil demand exceeds supply, the macro environment will be constructive for both international and U.S. markets. Halliburton's unique value proposition, integrated services portfolio, and differentiated technologies position us to outperform in this market. We have significant growth potential in new markets with our specialty chemicals and artificial lift businesses. Our technical differentiation allows us to disproportionately benefit from equipment capacity tightening across markets, improved pricing, higher utilization, and our significant operating leverage will deliver strong incrementals for Halliburton in this upcycle. We will continue to execute on our strategic priorities and remain committed to driving strong double-digit growth margin expansion, significant free cash flow, and returns for our shareholders as this multiyear upcycle unfolds. And now let's open it up for questions. 