
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the CDW First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to Brittany Smith, Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning and Analysis. Please go ahead.Brittany Smith -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Joining me remotely today to review our first quarter results are; Chris Leahy, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Collin Kebo, our Chief Financial Officer.Our first quarter earnings release was distributed this morning and is available on our website, investor.cdw.com, along with supplemental slides that you can use to follow along during the call.I'd like to remind you that certain comments made in this presentation are considered forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Additional information concerning these risks and uncertainties is contained in the earnings release and Form 8-K we furnished to the SEC today and in the company's other filings with the SEC. CDW assumes no obligation to update the information presented during this webcast.Our presentation also includes certain non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP earnings per share. All non-GAAP measures have been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with SEC rules. You'll find reconciliation charts in the slides for today's webcast and in our earnings release and Form 8-K, we furnished to the SEC today. Please note that all references to growth rates or dollar amount increases that I remarked today are versus the comparable period in 2020, unless otherwise indicated.

 



In addition, all references to growth rates for hardware, software and services today represent U.S. net sales only, and do not include the results from CDW U.K. or Canada. Also there was one fewer selling day in the first quarter of 2021 as compared to 2020. Replay of this webcast will be posted to our website later today. I also want to remind you that this conference call is the property of CDW and may not be recorded or rebroadcast without specific written permission from the company.With that, let me turn the call over to Chris.Christine A. Leahy -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Brittany.

 



I'll begin this morning with an overview of first quarter results and drivers of performance, and share our updated thoughts on 2021. Collin will then take you through a more detailed look at our financials, capital allocation strategy and outlook. We'll move quickly through our prepared remarks to ensure we have plenty of time for questions.We had a strong first quarter. Our results demonstrate the balance and strength of CDW's business model and strategy. For the first quarter, net sales were $4.8 billion, 12% above last year on an average daily sales basis adjusted for the impact to one fewer business day in the first quarter of 2021 than 2020, and up 10.9% in constant currency.Gross profit increased 5.1% to $795 million. Non-GAAP operating income was $368 million, an increase of 21%. And non-GAAP net income per share was $1.74, up 26.2% on a reported basis and up 25.3% in constant currency.The diversity of our end markets and solutions portfolio continue to serve us well, providing balance and driving our strong results as we overlap last year's end-of-quarter surge in demand for remote solutions. During the first quarter, we saw early signs of recovery as customers became more optimistic about the macroeconomic environment due to lower COVID case counts, higher vaccination rates, and new government stimulus.Customer spending and channels most impacted by COVID last year rebounded. We continue to help customers with remote enablement, resource optimization, security, hybrid and cloud solutions and digital transformation.This past quarter, customers allocated more technology spend to infrastructure needs, driving growth for our solutions portfolio. Customers were focused on investments for the future, reconfiguring how they interact with customers, strengthening hybrid environments, industrializing remote enablement, and restarting projects that had been delayed due to COVID.We combined our services and broad solutions portfolio with our extensive technical knowledge and unique logistical and distribution capabilities to advise, design and orchestrate the best outcomes for our customers.Customers choose CDW for three simple reasons. First, customers want a partner who know their business and their industry. Second, customers want to partner with broad and deep technical capabilities. And third, they want a partner who is focused on the optimal outcome, one who is agnostic across brand, technology and consumption model, and has an informed opinion. These reasons are fundamental to why CDW outperformed in the first quarter and will continue to win in the marketplace.During the first quarter, we remain focused on executing against our strategy and investing in high relevance and high-growth solutions and services capabilities, including our acquisition of Amplified IT. Amplified IT is a Google premium education partner and a leading provider of cloud-based services, solutions and software for education customers and has been a partner of CDW since 2016. We share a similar culture that puts customers first and together, we will accelerate our work to help customers' schools achieve great educational outcomes through technology.Last quarter, we leveraged our distribution centers, extensive logistics capabilities, deep vendor partner relationships and strong balance sheet and liquidity position to navigate supply challenges. Supply constraints and availability for client devices and some infrastructure products have been more challenging since the first quarter ended.Disruption has been caused by both component availability issues and supply chain logistical issues. The supply situation is fluid. Constraints will likely continue through the second half of the year and potentially into next year.Now let's take a deeper look at first quarter customer end market performance. Corporate declined 4% as customer spend continue to recover. Customer expectations that a hybrid environment will become the future work model, drove investments in notebooks and other remote enablement tools, while desktop and video sales declined.Solutions performance was flat, a significant improvement versus the previous quarter as NetComm and data center projects returned. Small business delivered strong growth, increasing 12% as optimism improved. Our team's helped customers with remote enablement, NetComm and data center projects, leading to solid growth in both transactional and solution spend.Net sales for our government channel decreased high single-digit. Federal declined mid-single-digits. However, excluding our Device as a Service solution for the U.S. Census Bureau, federal grew high single-digits, led by engagements for the Department of Defense across both transactional and solutions categories.The state and local channel decreased high single-digits. Customers paused their spending as they took a wait-and-see approach during the quarter for a stimulus support under the new administration.Education again grew triple-digits, achieving over 100% growth, powered by K-12. K-12 customers continue to focus on equity and access, as well as ways to address learning loss, which drove strong transactional and solutions performance. Customers turn to us for holistic capabilities and expertise to help schools enable a variety of learning models, remote, hybrid, blended and in-person.Higher Ed increased low single digits. Growth slowed versus prior quarters as customers assess their plans to invest stimulus funding to prepare for returning students. Healthcare declined 2%, a meaningful improvement to prior quarters. Customers were more optimistic due to increased income generated from the return to elected procedures and the accelerated vaccination pace. Solutions returned to growth driven by customers refreshing and updating their data centers.Other, which represents our U.K. and Canadian operations increased over 20% on a reported basis. In local currency, the U.K. team increased net sales double-digits, and the Canada team drove high single-digit growth. Strong results for both markets were driven by fiscal year-end government spending, as well as continued investment by healthcare and education customers.Our first quarter performance benefited from the diversity of our customer base and from our deep and broad product portfolio. We continue to meet the critical demands of our customers. Transactions increased strong double-digits and solutions returned to growth, increasing low single-digits.Hardware was up strong double-digits driven by excellent notebook growth across all channels, leading to 26% client device growth. Software declined high single-digits due to a decline in software licenses, but software gross profit growth remains solid. While services decreased low single-digits when adjusted for overlapping the contribution from the Census project last year, services grew strong double digits, driven by strength in our professional and managed services.Services are fundamental to our go-to-market approach and a key enabler of our value proposition. We also delivered excellent growth in our cloud practice. Cloud customer spend increased strong double digits across all customer end markets, driven by robust growth in Infrastructure as a Service, security, productivity and collaboration. We expect strong customer demand for cloud solutions to continue, and we are well positioned to deliver.Our first quarter operating and financial performance reflects the combined impact of our balanced portfolio of customer end markets, our full suite of solutions and services across the IT landscape and our ongoing success executing our three-part strategy for growth. They are important drivers of our past and future performance.The diversity of our customer end markets serves us well when macro or other external challenges impact various industries and customers differently. Our extensive product, services and solutions portfolio positions us to meet our customers' total needs across the spectrum of IT. The balance of our customer end markets and our offerings are especially relevant in the current environment.And the final driver of our performance is our three-part strategy for growth, which is to, first, acquire new customers and capture share; second, enhance our solutions capabilities; and third, expand our services capabilities. Each pillar is crucial to our ability to profitably advise, design, orchestrate and manage integrated technology solutions our customers want and need today and in the future.Let me share two examples of our strategy in action and how we helped customers last quarter. Our Small Business team helped a customer that enables digital platforms to utilize natural language processing and machine learning to upgrade its technology infrastructure after it had been postponed due to COVID last spring. In early 2020, our account manager was working with the customers' technology team on a server upgrade at its primary data center. COVID hit and the customer froze all capital expenditures. Our account manager did a great job nurturing the relationship so that CDW is well positioned to help our customer when the project resumed.Last quarter, the customer was more optimistic about its future prospects and ready to proceed. We get access to capital and wanted to take advantage of its employees still working remotely. The project scope was expanded to upgrade all infrastructure, security, networking, storage, servers and software at its headquarters and its primary data center. The customer relied heavily on our team for its expertise to design and implement the complex solutions.In 2020, customers had to react quickly to the impact of COVID. In 2021, we see that our customers are being strategic and proactively looking to technology to be more effective and efficient in a post-COVID world.As I shared earlier, we acquired Amplified IT at the end of the first quarter. We are excited about the opportunity to go to market together with our combined strengths and to orchestrate complete hardware, software, services and cloud solutions that leverage our full stack capabilities and drive full outcomes for and deep engagement with our education customers.We started to execute against this vision immediately. CDW's relationships and extensive contract vehicles with the State Department of Education enabled the customer frictionless access to Amplified IT's portfolio. The school system needed to enhance its communication and collaboration tools to service community in different learning formats, so it centralized and standardized its technology with the help of Amplify IT and CDW to provide the right tools and support to its teachers and students across approximately 250 schools. We are excited about the addition of Amplified IT and see significant opportunity ahead.These examples highlight CDW's three-part strategy for growth and demonstrate our relentless focus on customer service, the importance of M&A to add solutions and services capabilities to best serve our customers and how we leverage our competitive advantages to win in the marketplace.I'm so proud of the way that our teams continue to deliver for our customers. Our distribution and configuration centers remains fully operational. We expect our office coworkers to continue to be remote until at least this fall, with plans under way by our Reunite team to reimagine our future of work, to continue to serve our customers and partners better than anyone else can.Let me now share our updated thoughts on 2021. We are increasing our outlook for both the U.S. IT market growth and CDW's net sales premium to market. We now expect the U.S. IT market growth to be about 4% and our top line to grow 300 to 400 basis points faster than the market in constant currency.For the second quarter, we are encouraged about customer demand to date and how our teams are executing. That said, we are cautious about the supply environment, which, as I mentioned, has become more challenged since the end of the first quarter. While there are other wildcards such as new COVID variants, vaccine rollout, return to office and potential policy changes, including infrastructure and taxes, our confidence in the prospects of the business have never been higher.Technology will be more essential to all sectors of the economy and will play an increasingly important role in the years ahead. We have confidence that we have the right strategy to best serve our customers and partners, enhance our competitive position and deliver sustainable profitable growth.CDW's role as a trusted strategic partner to our customers is more important now than ever. We will continue to do what we do best, leverage our competitive advantages to help our customers address their IT priorities and achieve their strategic objectives and out-execute our competition.Before I turn the call over to Collin for his comments on the quarter, I want to say a few words about the CFO transition plans we announced earlier today. First, I want to thank Collin for his contributions to CDW over the past 13 years and his strong leadership as our CFO since 2018. Collin has played a significant role in our evolution and consistent market-leading growth as a public company, and he has established a truly best-in-class finance team. On a personal note, it's been wonderful to be a close colleague of Collin over 13 years, and I've greatly appreciated his partnership. We are also appreciative of Collin's commitment to support CDW in a search for his successor and to remain on the Board to ensure a smooth transition.With that, I'll turn it over to Collin.Collin B. Kebo -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Chris, and good morning, everyone. My 13 years at CDW have been among the most rewarding of my career, and I want to thank you, the leadership team and all coworkers for making CDW so special. I also want to thank the finance team for bringing it every day.I'll miss CDW, but I'm confident the company has never been stronger and its best days are ahead. Following a successful transition, I'm looking forward to retiring so I can spend more time with family and helping others.I'll start my prepared remarks with more detail on the first quarter, move to capital allocation priorities and then finish up with our 2021 outlook. Turning to our first quarter P&L on Slide 8. Consolidated net sales were $4.8 billion, up 10.2% on a reported basis and 12% on an average daily sales basis as we had one fewer selling day. On a constant currency average daily sales basis, consolidated net sales grew 10.9%. On an average daily sales basis, sequential sales decreased 3.9% versus the fourth quarter.First quarter sales were stronger than expected, reflecting several factors. On the demand side, the timing and slope of the recovery was better than expected in several channels most impacted by COVID-19 last year.Small Business, CDW Canada and CDW U.K. all delivered strong growth and declines in Corporate and Healthcare improved meaningfully versus the previous quarter. On the supply side, our team did a great job navigating the challenging environment, leveraging our distribution capabilities and strong vendor partner relationships and was able to work down a portion of the backlog in Chromebooks, which was higher than normal coming into the year.This supply, coupled with continued strong demand from education customers, resulted in Education net sales doubling compared to the prior year.Gross profit for the quarter was $795 million, an increase of 5.1% on a reported basis and 6.8% on an average daily sales basis. Gross margin was 16.4%, down 80 basis points versus last year, primarily driven by lower product margin, including notebook mix and rate and overlapping higher-margin configuration services for the Census project last year, partially offset by an increase in the mix of netted down revenues, primarily Software as a Service.Turning to SG&A on Slide 9. Non-GAAP SG&A decreased 5.6%. The decrease was primarily driven by lower bad debt expense and lower travel and entertainment expense. If you recall, last year, we increased our credit loss reserve as a result of the expected impact of COVID-19. These decreases were partially offset by higher investments in coworkers.Coworker count at the end of the first quarter was 10,186. Coworker count increased 204% from the fourth quarter, driven by an increase of approximately 120 customer-facing coworkers, including over 40 from Amplified IT. The increase in coworker count reflects investments to support high-growth solution areas and the digital transformation of our own business.Year-over-year coworker count increased to 82, driven by organic and inorganic investments in coworkers to support high-growth solution areas and our digital transformation, partially offset by cost management actions in 2020.GAAP operating income was $323 million, up 31.6%. Non-GAAP operating income, which better reflects operating performance, was $368 million, up 21%. Non-GAAP operating income margin was 7.6%, a record high margin for our first quarter, reflecting the benefit of our variable cost structure.Moving to Slide 10. Interest expense was $36 million, down 6.1%. The decrease was primarily due to a lower LIBOR rate and savings from last year's refinancing, partially offset by notes issued in April of 2020. Our GAAP effective tax rate, shown on Slide 11, was 19.5%, this resulted in first quarter tax expense of $56 million compared to $44 million last year.To get to our non-GAAP effective tax rate, we adjust taxes consistent with non-GAAP net income add-backs, as shown on Slide 12. For the quarter, our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 25.2%, down 70 basis points versus last year's rate, primarily due to lower global intangible low taxed income and lower nondeductible expenses.As you can see on Slide 13, with first quarter weighted average diluted shares outstanding of $143 million, GAAP net income per share was $1.63, up 40.3%. Our non-GAAP net income was $249 million in the quarter, up 24.7%. Non-GAAP net income per share was $1.74, up 26.2% from last year.Turning to the balance sheet on Slide 14. At March 31, cash and cash equivalents were $879 million and net debt was $3.1 billion. Liquidity remains strong with cash plus revolver availability of approximately $2.1 billion.Free cash flow for the quarter was $101 million, as shown on Slide 15. This was lighter than a typical first quarter, but expected given last year's record $1.2 billion of free cash flow, which benefited from timing and onetime items. In Q1, we saw some of the timing reverse as we mixed out of vendors with extended payment terms and made payments related to the Census.For the quarter, we deployed cash consistent with our capital allocation priorities, purchasing Amplified IT and returning $415 million to shareholders, including $56 million of dividends and $358 million of share repurchases at an average price of approximately $148 per share.Moving to Slide 16. The three-month average cash conversion cycle was 22 days, up two days from last year's first quarter. The increase was primarily driven by a two-day increase in DIO as we made investments in inventory to support customers through the choppy supply environment.Turning to capital allocation on Slide 17, our priorities remain the same. First, increase the dividend in line with non-GAAP net income. To guide these increases we will target the dividend at approximately 25% of non-GAAP net income and to grow in line with earnings going forward.Second, ensure we have the right capital structure in place, with a targeted net leverage ratio of 2.5 to three times. We ended the first quarter at two times, up three times of a return from year-end.Third, supplement organic growth with strategic acquisitions, the acquisition of Amplified IT that Chris highlighted as a great example of this. We remain active in evaluating M&A targets.And fourth, return excess cash after dividends and M&A to shareholders through share repurchases. Going forward, we expect to continue to move closer to our target net leverage range of 2.5 times to three times, through a combination of organic investments, M&A and cash return to shareholders.We continue to expect to return at least $1.2 billion to shareholders in 2021, including approximately $1 billion for share repurchases, with the balance from dividends. Of course, as we always do, we'll closely monitor the macroeconomic environment, liquidity, M&A activity, leverage, and adjust as needed.Moving to the outlook for 2021 on Slide 18, the current environment continues to be challenging to forecast with a high-degree of confidence. On the demand side, we are encouraged by the activity and building momentum, particularly with U.S. commercial customers, where April writings for corporate and small business were up healthy double-digits on a year-over-year basis. We're also seeing good activity at CDW Canada and CDW U.K.On the supply side, uncertainty has increased since the first quarter. Our backlog is higher than normal and increasing with lead times extending and visibility challenge at suppliers. Notebooks, certain Chromebooks, displays, and pockets of infrastructure hardware are becoming more constrained. Net demand particularly with commercial customers feels stronger than three months ago, but supply is more challenged.With that context, our updated outlook is for the U.S. IT market to grow approximately 4%. We expect CDW net sales to grow 300 to 400 basis points faster than the market in constant currency, including the contribution from Amplified IT.Currency is expected to be a tailwind of approximately 60 basis points for the full year, assuming exchange rates of $1.36 to the British pound and $0.79 to the Canadian dollar.Moving down the P&L, we continue to expect non-GAAP operating income margin to be in the mid-7% range for 2021. We now expect non-GAAP constant currency earnings-per-share growth in the low double-digits, call it, 11% to 11.5%.Currency is expected to contribute an additional approximately 50 basis points to earnings-per-share growth. This updated full year outlook for non-GAAP earnings per share is an increase of approximately $0.30 over last quarter. Additional modeling thoughts, for annual depreciation and amortization, interest expense and the non-GAAP effective tax-rate are unchanged from last quarter and can be found on Page 19.Moving to modeling thoughts for the second quarter, on the February earnings call, we did not provide our first half, second half sales split, as we typically would because of the uncertainty. Based on our current assessment, we expect the split to be approximately 48.5% to 49% first half, 51.5% to 51% second half. This assumes a slight sequential increase from Q1 to Q2, on an average daily sales basis and equates to low double-digit year-over-year growth in the second quarter. We expect second quarter non-GAAP earnings per share to grow in line with full year non-GAAP earnings-per-share growth.If supply turns out to be more resilient, enabling us to work down the backlog or keep pace with even stronger demand that would be upside to the outlook. We feel good about the health of the business and believe supply uncertainty is a question of timing across the next three quarters and potentially into 2022.Additional modeling thoughts on the components of cash flow can be found on Slide 20. Our long-term free cash flow rule of thumb remains unchanged at 3.75% to 4.25% of net sales, assuming current tax rates. Given the timing impacts that contributed to 2020 significant over delivery, we continue to expect 2021 free cash flow to be at or slightly below the low end of the range.We continue to expect capex to run approximately 75 basis points to 80 basis points as a percent of net sales, slightly higher than the historical 50 basis points rule of thumb. As we mentioned before, we believe now is the time to accelerate investment and digital transformation in our own business, enabling us to fortify our competitive position and make CDW the trusted partner of choice for customers and vendor partners.As we always do, we will provide updated views on the macro environment and our business on future earnings calls. That concludes the financial summary.With that, I'll ask Cristal to open it up for questions. Can we please ask each of you to limit your questions to one with a brief follow-up? Thank you.