  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the EPAM Systems third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, David Straube, head of investor relations. Please go ahead.David Straube -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. By now, you should have received your copy of the earnings release for the company's third quarter 2021 results. If you have not, a copy is available on epam.com in the Investors section. With me on today's call are Arkadiy Dobkin, CEO and president; and Jason Peterson, chief financial officer. I'd like to remind those listening that some of the comments made on today's call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in the company's earnings release and SEC filings. Additionally, all references to reported results that are non-GAAP measures have been reconciled to the comparable GAAP measures and are available in our quarterly earnings material located in the Investors section of our website. With that said, I'll now turn the call over to Ark.Ark Dobkin -- Chief Executive Officer, President, and Chairman Thank you, David. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I think it would make sense to start today from the same reference point we used exactly 12 months ago when we began to see the first positive turning signs after the pandemic hit us earlier in 2020. That reference point was our Investor and Analyst Day, which took place November 2019 in Boston, which was still done in the old-fashion, in-person setting.

 



 On that day, we were reminding about EPAM's history during our post-IPO years, and our transformational journey from being a pure software engineering services firm to a much more diverse, digital and product consultancy with strong engineering offerings. Beginning in 2013, we set an aspirational goal to become one of the global leaders in product development services space. Three years later, in 2016, we set out another one to become one of the global leaders in product and platform engineering services. We were excited that practically every few years we focused on the way EPAM needs to evolve as an organization with our offerings and the specific elements that were essential to transform the company. These undertakings enabled us to innovate, remain relevant and stay ahead in ever-changing market during those initial post-IPO times. Each aspirational mission was done at a landing point in a longer journey of transformation and was validated by external views, namely industry analysts within the sector, in our ability to grow significantly faster than the market, which has resulted in doubling the company revenue practically every three years. In result, at our Investor and Analyst Day in 2019, we shared our aspiration for the next three years, targeting actually the end of 2021 and softly indicated that we might be able to double the size of EPAM again. We also stated then that to achieve this goal, we will need to continue transforming EPAM into a different company with a strong capability to adapt people, platforms, and processes into those that quickly respond to change, build and bring to life the digital platform that connects our people to work seamlessly and enables us to be efficient and effective in all what we do, to extend our leadership across integrated consulting and engineering services, and in result, open opportunities for transformation for everybody anywhere through next-generation delivery, educational, social, and innovation products. In short, we set our sights on becoming the transformation platform for those clients who would like to become adaptive enterprises themselves, which remains indeed our current undertaking today as well. So last year, on our Q3 earnings call, we were reminding of all that and shared a good level of optimism or self-confidence, if you will, that we would be returning to our traditional 20-plus percent organic growth rate in post-pandemic environment. But we also were almost certain at that point that doubling our 2018 revenue by the end of 2021 would not be a realistic target anymore with everything we experienced in Q2 and Q3 of last year and how we, in general, saw the situation for 2021 back then in November of 2020. Now as we sit here today, we see how naive our post-pandemic assumptions were just a year ago, especially regarding the post-pandemic term itself. I guess, we all are realizing today that we can drop the post portion of this term for some time in the future. But on another side, we are now realizing that EPAM is in exciting growth route in its 28-year journey because while looking at the present, we have clear line of sight to a fiscal year, which will be one of the highest-growing revenue years in our post-IPO history, that includes also breaking through to our $4 billion revenue quarter at the end of 2021 and actually still reaching out our aspirational goal of doubling the company for the third time since 2012. This result is an intersection of many factors that have led us to our current state and the next phase of our journey, a journey that has been as much about transforming EPAM as it has been about helping our clients transform themselves. It's exactly through this latest ambition, which we shared in Boston, that we are developing ourselves to be one of the best in the areas of innovation and design, consulting, education and social responsibility in addition to driving even higher levels of excellence as one of the strongest engineering companies in our space.

 



 And today, EPAM is a substantially different company than we were just six, eight years ago, one that has much more diverse foundation to drive the next levels of value to the clients and our growth in result. So along the way, we have to and will continue to solve for the challenges of scaling for growth, geographical expansions and attracting new types of talent, which brings different experiences and different types of think into EPAM, while complementing our strong technical and engineering teams. Additionally, at each conference we're identifying capabilities that we needed to strengthen or build in order to transform EPAM to serve the market needs, and to be done in both ways, organically and through acquisitions, which continue to be an important part of our capability extension strategy. As we turn to the future and set our sights on growing to a $10 billion revenue company, our growth will come from the foundational building blocks we have assembled over the last years, some of which include an integrated consulting and engineering offerings, which brings together business and strategy, technology and experience consulting brought to the market through our EPAM Continuum offerings; high-value cloud services focused on cloud-native development, application optimization and enabling the data-driven enterprise, helping our customers modernize grow from inside out; data and AI everywhere, leveraging our strong advances in engineering and data heritage; building the massive data structures and leveraging API technologies to drive fast insights; and enabled with our global talent pool that connected by our digital platforms guided by next-generation delivery methodologies and supported by educational, social and innovation initiatives. Lastly, we will continue to focus on expanding our partner ecosystem aligned with our vision and mapped with our vertical and geographical focus developing joint solutions and go into market together. So pivoting into the current moment, as I mentioned a short time ago, acquisitions will continue to be a prominent part of EPAM capabilities and geographical extension strategy. This year, we have already closed on five acquisitions, which are enabling us to expand our current offerings in sales force, cybersecurity, analytics, strategy consulting and our presence in Latin America. You also may have seen recent regulatory filings about our intentions to acquire Emakina Group. Emakina is globally recognized digital marketing and experience agency, or how they call themselves the user agency, specializing in a range of areas, including commerce and retail, media planning and buying, service design, branding, and content production across a number of others, headquartered in Belgium and with more than 1,100 employees and studios across 18 countries in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and North America. This acquisition will enhance EPAM's ability to deliver creative solutions, personalized experience, and next-generation digital products, which will increase our new offering to our global clients. So worth noting that while EPAM is already listed among Ad Age Top 25 Largest Agencies in the World, Emakina will add very new capabilities to our agency working and significantly strengthen EPAM in market positioning across Europe and Middle East. With that, it seems like it's the right moment now to mention that just a few days ago, Fortune Magazine published their 100 fastest-growing companies list for 2021 and included EPAM in it the fourth time and third consecutive year, ranking us 25th overall and, the #1 in information technology services category. Of note, we are actually is the only IT services company on the list. And in addition, Newsweek included EPAM for the first time in their 2021 America's Most Loved Workplace ranking, placing us as No. 49 on the list. So before turning to Jason to provide an update on our third quarter results and our 2021 outlook, while I would like one more time to state the demand for our services continues to be very strong and we see this across all market segments. We also very well understand that this is an overall strong demand environment. And this is precisely why we feel we cannot become overly confident. We need to continuously build on our breadth and continuously invest in our strong engineering culture, while constantly expanding our services into real end-to-end, higher complexity engagements across the globe to bring unquestionable value to the clients. We understand that everything about our future high growth is hard. But as before, we are not trying to push into new areas because they are challenging, and we are committed to do so in a very thoughtful and sustainable way so as not to compromise on the quality of the delivery that EPAM is known for. And if anything, we are constantly looking for ways to establish true differentiation for not only our customers, but also, as importantly, for EPAMers. With that, let me turn the call over to Jason.Jason Peterson -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Ark, and good morning, everyone. In the third quarter, EPAM delivered very strong results, reflecting continued significant demand for the company's services across a wide range of industry verticals and geographies. During the quarter, EPAM generated revenues of $988.5 million, a year-over-year increase of 51.6% on a reported basis and 50.7% in constant currency terms, reflecting a positive foreign exchange impact of 90 basis points. A continued robust demand environment, combined with our ability to recruit at record levels while retaining talent, drove a higher-than-expected revenue result for the quarter. Customers continue to turn to EPAM for help transforming their businesses, and we continue to support our customers across a range of initiatives, including modernizing and transforming applications across the full range of industries we serve, creating new digital products and businesses and harnessing the resulting data to improve revenue growth, supply chain operations and end-customer experiences. And finally, merging physical and digital to create superior retail experiences. Turning to the performance of our industry verticals. Travel and consumer grew 79.3% driven by very strong growth from both our consumer and retail clients. In addition, we saw renewed demand and return to growth across our travel customers. Financial services grew 68.9% with very strong broad-based growth coming from asset management, insurance, payments, and banking. Software and hi-tech grew 46.6% in the quarter. Life sciences and healthcare grew 29.5%. Business information and media delivered 23.6% growth in the quarter. And finally, our emerging verticals delivered 61.5% growth, driven by clients in telecommunications, energy, manufacturing, and automotive. From a geographic perspective, North America, our largest region representing 60% of Q3 revenues, grew 51.6% year over year or 51.4% in constant currency. Europe, representing 33% of our Q3 revenues, grew 50.9% year over year or 49.5% in constant currency. CIS, representing 4% of our Q3 revenues, grew 49.7% year over year and 44.6% in constant currency. And finally, APAC grew 60.4% year over year or 58% in constant-currency terms and now represents 3% of our revenues. In Q3, revenues from our top 20 customers grew 29%, while revenues from clients outside our top 20 grew 69%, resulting in greater diversification across our revenue base. Moving down to income statement. Our GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 33.9% compared to 35.1% in Q3 of last year. Non-GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 35.1% compared to 36.8% for the same quarter last year. Gross margin in Q3 2021 was impacted by higher levels of funding for our variable compensation programs, given the company's outperformance versus targets established at the beginning of the 2021 fiscal year. GAAP SG&A was 17.1% of revenue, compared to 17.9% in Q3 of last year. And non-GAAP SG&A came in at 15.3% of revenue, compared to 15.9% in the same period last year. GAAP income from operations was $144.1 million or 14.6% of revenue in the quarter, compared to $96.4 million or 14.8% of revenue in Q3 of last year. Non-GAAP income from operations was $179.6 million or 18.2% of revenue in the quarter, compared to $123.3 million or 18.9% of revenue in Q3 of last year. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter came in at 14.6% versus our Q3 guide of 13% due to a lower-than-expected level of excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and a onetime benefit related to certain tax credits. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits and includes the onetime benefit of the tax credit, was 21%. Diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis was $1.95. Our non-GAAP diluted EPS was $2.42, reflecting a $0.77 increase or 46.7% growth over the same quarter in 2020. In Q3, there were approximately 59.2 million diluted shares outstanding. Now turning to our cash flow and balance sheet. Cash flow from operations for Q3 was $206.1 million, compared to $175.6 million in the same quarter of 2020. Free cash flow of $184.9 million produced a 129% conversion of adjusted net income, compared to free cash flow of $165.8 million in the same quarter last year. We ended the quarter with approximately $1.3 billion in cash and cash equivalents, which does not include the restricted cash related to the acquisition of Emakina Group. Additionally, in October, we updated and expanded our unsecured credit facility, which will allow for up to $700 million in funding plus an additional $300 million via accordion, giving us access to a total of $1 billion in borrowing capacity. This new credit facility replaces a 2017 facility, which allowed for borrowing up to $300 million with an additional $100 million via accordion. At the end of Q3, DSO was 70 days and compares to 70 days for both Q2 2021 and the same quarter last year. We expect to maintain DSO around the same level or somewhat lower in Q4. Moving on to a few operational metrics. We ended the quarter with more than 47,050 consultants, designers, and engineers, a year-over-year increase of 39.4%. Our total head count for Q3 was more than 52,650 employees. In the first three quarters of 2021, we had approximately 11,500 net additions, a record number for EPAM over a nine-month period. Utilization was 77.1% compared to 78.2% in Q3 of last year and 80.2% in Q2 2021. Now let's turn to guidance. Based on our year-to-date results, combined with a robust demand environment and continued confidence in our ability to scale production headcount, we are raising our business outlook for 2021. So starting with our full year outlook, revenue growth will now be at least 40% on a reported basis, and in constant currency terms, it will now be at least 38%, after factoring in an approximate 2% favorable foreign exchange impact. On an organic constant-currency basis, revenue growth will be at least 34% after excluding an approximate 400 basis points of revenue contribution from acquisitions we closed in the last 12 months, including Emakina. This compares to the previous full year revenue growth outlook of 37% reported, 35% constant currency, and 32% in organic constant currency terms, which we provided during our Q2 earnings call. We expect GAAP income from operations to continue to be in the range of 13.5% to 14.5% and non-GAAP income from operations to continue to be in the range of 17% to 18%. We expect our GAAP effective tax rate to continue to be approximately 11%, which includes the benefit of certain tax credits I mentioned previously. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, will now be 22%. For earnings per share, we expect the GAAP diluted EPS will now be in the range of $7.86 to $7.93 for the full year, and non-GAAP diluted EPS will now be in the range of $8.72 to $8.79 for the full year. We expect weighted average share count of 59.1 million fully diluted shares outstanding. For Q4 of 2021, we expect revenues to be in the range of $1.075 billion to $1.085 billion, producing a year-over-year growth rate of approximately 49% at the midpoint of the range, with the favorable impact of foreign exchange on revenue growth expected to be minimal. Lastly, we expect approximately 800 basis points of revenue contribution to come from acquisitions closed over the last 12 months, including Emakina. For the fourth quarter, we expect GAAP income from operations to be in the range of 13.5% to 14.5% and non-GAAP income from operations to be in the range of 17% to 18%. We expect our GAAP effective tax rate to be approximately 14% and our non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, to be approximately 22%. For earnings per share, we expect GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.11 to $2.18 for the quarter and non-GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.44 to $2.51 for the quarter. We expect a weighted average share count of 59.3 million diluted shares outstanding. Finally, a few key assumptions that support our GAAP to non-GAAP measurements in the fourth quarter. Stock-based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $31.4 million. Amortization of intangibles is expected to be approximately $5.6 million. The impact of foreign exchange is expected to be approximately a $1.5 million loss. Tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments is expected to be around $8 million. And finally, we expect excess tax benefits to be around $13 million in the quarter. In summary, we are pleased with our Q3 results and the record growth we are producing in our 2021 fiscal year. While it is too early to give a detailed view of our business outlook for 2022, we believe the demand environment continues to support an elevated annual growth rate in excess of our traditional guidance of greater than 20%. However, we also believe it is important to establish and maintain a more sustainable growth rate in the coming year than that achieved in 2021. As we have done in the past, we'll provide a detailed view of 2022 guidance in February on our Q4 earnings call. Operator, let's open the call up for questions. 