  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Textron first quarter earnings release conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Eric Salander, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Eric Salander -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Lia, and good morning, everyone. Before we begin, I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors, which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release. On the call today, we have Scott Donnelly, Textron's chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor, our chief financial officer. Our earnings call presentation can be found in the investor relations section of our website. Revenues in the quarter were $3 billion, up from $2.9 billion in last year's first quarter. Segment profit in the quarter was $304 million, up $48 million from last year's -- from the first quarter of 2021. During this year's first quarter, we reported net income of $0.88 per share compared to $0.70 per share on an adjusted basis in last year's first quarter.Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions totaled $209 million in the quarter, up $138 million from the first quarter of 2021. With that, I'll turn the call over to Scott. Scott Donnelly -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Eric, and good morning, everyone. Revenues and margins were up in the quarter, driven by Textron aviation. aviation demonstrated strong execution in the quarter, resulting in 11.6% segment margin. We continue to see very strong demand, solid pricing and increased deliveries from our Citation jet and commercial turboprop products and higher aftermarket volume from increased aircraft utilization. We delivered 39 jets, up from 28 last year and 31 commercial turboprops, up from 14 in last year's first quarter. Order activity was very strong in the quarter with $1 billion of backlog growth, reflecting continued order momentum across our product portfolio. We ended the quarter with $5.1 billion in backlog. In March, our new commercial turboprop, the Cessna SkyCourier received FAA certification, and we expect to begin deliveries in the second quarter. At Bell, revenues were down 1% in the quarter, largely driven by the mix of commercial products sold. On the commercial side of Bell, we delivered 25 helicopters, up from 17 in last year's first quarter. During the quarter, we saw momentum build in commercial demand across all our product aircraft models and end markets with a strong quarter of new orders. Moving to Future Vertical Lift. In March, Bell submitted its final FLRAA proposal revision to the U.S. Army. A downselect and award announcement is expected this summer. Moving to Textron Systems. Revenues were down in the quarter on lower volume, primarily reflecting the impact of last year's withdrawal of the U.S. Army from Afghanistan on our fee-for-service and aircraft support contracts. At ATAC, we continue to see increased flight activity and revenue on our U.S. Navy and Air Force adversary air contracts. During the quarter, Systems successfully deployed the first Aerosonde UAS system in a maritime environment aboard a U.S. Navy guided missile destroyer. Systems is expected to deploy a second Aerosonde UAS for an additional ship later this year. Moving to industrial, we saw higher revenue during the quarter, driven by higher pricing and volume in specialized vehicles and our PTV and golf product lines. We continue to see strong end-market demand in most of our product lines across specialized vehicles. Kautex, we saw disruptions related to global auto OEM supply chain shortages to continue to directly impact our production schedules resulting in lower volume. At the product level, hybrid revenue increased 24% year over year to 12% of total Kautex revenues in the first quarter, up from 9% a year ago as we continue to penetrate the hybrid fuel systems segment. On April 15, we closed our acquisition of Pipistrel, a pioneer and global leader in luxury powered aircraft. Pipistrel brings its technical and regulatory expertise in the development of electric and hybrid aircraft to support Textron's long-term strategy to offer families sustainable aircraft for urban air mobility, general aviation, cargo and special mission roles. With that, I'll turn the call over to Frank.Frank Connor -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Scott, and good morning, everyone. Let's review how each of the segments contributed, starting with Textron aviation. Revenues at Textron aviation of $1 billion were up $175 million from a year ago, largely due to higher Citation jet volume of $93 million, aftermarket volume of $61 million and commercial turboprop volume of $59 million. Segment profit was $121 million in the first quarter, up $74 million from a year ago, largely due to the higher volume and mix of $55 million and favorable pricing net of inflation of $16 million. Backlog in the segment ended the quarter at $5.1 billion. Moving to Bell. Revenues were $834 million, down $12 million from last year due to lower commercial revenues of $32 million, largely reflecting the mix of aircrafts sold during the period, partially offset by higher military revenues. Segment profit of $98 million was down $7 million, reflecting lower volume and mix, partially offset by favorable impact from performance. Backlog in the segment ended the quarter at $4.8 billion. At Textron Systems, revenues were $273 million, down $55 million from last year's first quarter due to lower volume of $59 million, primarily reflecting the impact of the U.S. Army's withdrawal from Afghanistan on our fee-for-service and aircraft support contracts. Segment profit of $33 million was down $18 million from a year ago due to lower volume and mix of $11 million described above and an unfavorable impact from performance of $9 million primarily reflecting lower net favorable program adjustments on our fee-for-service contracts. Backlog in this segment ended the quarter at $2.1 billion. Industrial revenues were $838 million, up $13 million from last year, primarily due to a favorable impact of $46 million from pricing, principally in the Specialized Vehicles product line, partially offset by lower volume and the mix of $24 million, largely in the fuel systems and functional components product line due to the impact of global supply chain shortages on our auto OEM customers. Segment profit of $43 million was down $4 million from the first quarter of 2021, primarily due to lower volume and mix described above. Finance segment revenues were $16 million and profit was $9 million. Moving below segment profit, corporate expenses were $44 million and interest expense was $28 million. Our manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $209 million in the quarter, up $138 million from last year's first quarter. In the quarter, we repurchased 2.2 million shares, returning $157 million in cash to shareholders. Beginning in the second quarter of 2022, Pipistrel will become part of Textron eAviation, a new business segment where we will combine our existing initiatives with Pipistrel's capabilities to accelerate our development of sustainable aviation solutions. This new reporting segment will include development expenses related to these efforts and Pipistrel's operating results. For the remainder of the year, we expect revenues for the eAviation segment to be in the range of $30 million to $40 million and a segment loss of about $45 million, which reflects a net cost increase of about $20 million from the eAviation guidance we provided in January. On our January call, we provided guidance for the expected costs related to eAviation of about $30 million, which were included in our full year corporate expense guidance of about $150 million. We now expect corporate expense to be about $125 million reflecting the move of $25 million of expected eAviation cost to the new segment on a prospective basis. For the full year, we're reiterating our EPS guidance of $3.80 to $4 per share, inclusive of the eAviation segment results. That concludes our prepared remarks. So Lia, we can open the line for questions. 