  OperatorThank you for standing by, and welcome to the Enphase Energy first-quarter 2021 financial results conference call. [Operator instructions]. As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded. And now, I'd like to hand the conference call over to Adam Hinckley. Please go ahead, sir.Adam Hinckley -- Senior Director, Investor Relations

 



 Good afternoon and thank you for joining us on today's conference call to discuss Enphase Energy's first-quarter 2021 results. On today's call are Badri Kothandaraman, Enphase's president and chief executive officer; Eric Branderiz, chief financial officer; and Raghu Belur, chief products officer. After the market closed today, Enphase issued a press release announcing the results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2021. During this conference call, Enphase management will make forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to: statements related to Enphase Energy's expected future financial performance; the capability of our technology and products, including availability and features; our operations, including in manufacturing and customer service; the anticipated growth in our sales and in the markets in which we operate and target; and the capabilities of our installation partners. These forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties, and Enphase Energy's actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from these expectations. For a more complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties, please see the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, which is on file with the SEC, and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2021, which will be filed during the second quarter of 2021. Enphase Energy cautions you not to place any undue reliance on forward-looking statements and undertakes no duty or obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or changes in its expectations. Also, please note that the financial measures used on this call are expressed on a non-GAAP basis unless otherwise noted and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges.The company has provided a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in its earnings release posted today, which can also be found in the investor relations section of its website. Now, I'd like to introduce Badri Kothandaraman, president and chief executive officer of Enphase Energy. Badri? Badri Kothandaraman -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us today to discuss our first-quarter 2021 financial results. We had a good quarter. We reported revenue of $301.8 million, shipped approximately 2.45 million microinverters, achieved non-GAAP gross margin of 41.1% and generated strong free cash flow of $81.5 million. We exited the first quarter at approximately 41, 14, 27. This means 41% gross margin, 14% operating expenses and 27% operating income, all as a percentage of revenue on a non-GAAP basis. As a reminder, our baseline financial model is 35, 15, 20. Eric will go into details about our financials later in the call. Let's discuss how we are servicing customers. Our Q1 Net Promoter Score worldwide was 63% compared to 62% in Q4 and our North America Net Promoter Score was 69% compared to 68% in Q4. Our average call wait time in Q1 was more than five minutes as we onboarded new installers and fielded calls related to our storage systems. We are working diligently to bring wait times down under a minute. We also expect our 24/7 global customer support to help reduce wait times. The round the clock support is another step forward toward delivering an outstanding customer experience and will supplement the Enphase community and training platforms. Let's talk about manufacturing. As we discussed in the last call, the semiconductor supply chain is under stress. In Q1, we experienced constraints on the supply of ASICs and AC FET drivers, which limited shipments.

 



 Our contract manufacturing facility in Mexico shipped more than 900,000 microinverters. Our contract manufacturing facility at Salcomp, India shipped nearly 500,000 microinverters. We are very pleased with the production ramp, product quality and manufacturing cost of this fully automated facility in India. Given our strong demand, we are expanding manufacturing capacity in Mexico and India further. In Mexico, we are improving operational efficiency and expect to reach quarterly capacity of 1.5 million microinverters. At our facility in Chennai, India, production is around the clock, bringing quarterly capacity to 700,000 microinverters from one manufacturing line. We have already purchased equipment for the second manufacturing line and expect to begin ramping in Q3. Looking to Q2, our shipment volumes will be constrained by semiconductor component availability. We have qualified new suppliers for our ASIC and AC FET drivers, which will result in increased shipments for Q2 compared to Q1. But the ramp from these new suppliers is slower than what we had anticipated before. We expect these component constraints to remain for the rest of the year. In terms of our Enphase storage systems, we shipped 42 megawatt hours in Q1, representing a sequential increase of 30% and in line with our expectations. Let's now move to the regions. The US and international revenue mix for Q1 was 82% and 18%, respectively. The US market was quite strong in Q1 despite typical seasonality. US revenue was up 14% sequentially. We achieved very good microinverter sell through from our distribution partners. I am proud of our operations team for navigating the supply constraints and ensuring customers had continuous supply of product. With higher microinverters shipments in Q1, our channel inventory is better but still tight. With Q2 through Q4 being seasonally robust quarters, we expect the channel tightness for microinverters to continue. In Europe, we reported record Q1 revenue. Revenue increased 17% sequentially. We saw strength in Netherlands and France while building on new markets such as Germany, Poland and Austria. Our AC module strategy is also gaining momentum in Europe. We expect to introduce Enphase storage systems for the European market in the second half of 2021, first in Germany and then in Italy, adding yet another growth driver. I'm very pleased with our performance in Europe. In Australia, we had record revenue and record installer count. Q1 revenue was up 58% sequentially. The strong growth of the Enphase Installer Network, or EIN, and rapid market penetration of our IQ 7A product contributed to our success. In addition, we are focusing both on installer and homeowner experience, launching 24/7 customer support, conducting technical training and collaborating on branding initiatives with installers in Australia. We expect to introduce Enphase storage systems to Australia also in the second half of 2021. In Latin America, Q1 revenue was down a little 33% from the prior quarter, which had benefited from large storage orders. Puerto Rico continues to be a solid market in terms of both microinverters and storage. We are also making plans to enter the Brazilian residential solar market, which is expected to be over 1 gigawatt this year. We have already hired Marco Krapels, an experienced sales leader to accelerate our entry into Brazil. Now, that we have covered the region, let's discuss the overall bookings for Q2. Now, once again, our customer demand for Q2 significantly exceeds the higher end of our guidance range. We remain supply constrained for Q2, as I said before. The component availability is improving but not at the rate of growth in demand. While it is very early to talk about Q3, our customer bookings are quite higher than what they would normally be at this time of the quarter. We are planning for much higher capacity in Q3 for both microinverters and storage. We're obviously pleased with the overall demand but we are cautious about the supply situation, which is not very predictable today. Let's now move to our storage system rollout. We shipped 42-megawatt hours of storage systems in Q1, representing sequential growth of approximately 30%. Cumulatively, 623 unique installers commissioned at least one Enphase storage systems by the end of Q1. We're also making good progress with the tier one and two installers. We previously announced solar plus storage partnerships with Sunnova, Momentum Solar, Solar Optimum and Power. We expect to announce more partnerships soon. Let's now turn to training for our Enphase storage systems. By the end of Q1, we trained 1,776 installers cumulatively online, representing 1,035 unique companies. We plan to resume in person training soon, beginning with our mobile van training in Texas. Other states will follow shortly. In addition, we are resuming the build out of training centers at various distributor locations. As you're aware, we are laser focused on customer service and making sure we are the easiest company to do business with. With these principles in mind, we started weekly installer round tables in Q1 to understand how we can improve the Enphase storage product. The findings are clear, improving the commissioning experience for installers and making life easier for homeowners. By leveraging the feedback, we have made a number of updates to our software and commissioning process. Our engineering teams have been working hard to reduce commissioning times on our storage systems from many hours to approximately two hours through software improvements and training initiatives. Our goal is a 60-minute commissioning time, which will allow our installers to visit the site, install and commission an Enphase storage system in a few hours. We expect to release a couple of new features for our Enphase storage system, as discussed in our last earnings call and these include load control and generator support. Load control is the ability to turn loads on and off. We envision that most homeowners will opt for a full backup of their entire home rather than a partial backup with the capability to shed loads when needed. We have four circuits for load control designed into our Enpower smart switch. Homeowners can choose up four loads they want to control. For example, an air conditioner can be controlled through one circuit and a pool pump can be controlled through another circuit. These loads will be on during the grid tight mode and can be shared instantaneously during the off grid mode simply via the app. In addition, excess solar can also be configured to be shared through one of these four circuits. This enables the homeowners to save money by not oversizing their battery storage systems. The next feature is generator compatibility. Unlike some of the others, there is no need to install a generator ATS when used with Enphase storage systems. The generator can plug in to our smart switch called Enpower, which has built in safeguards that ensure generator is only connected to the home when the home is off grid. When the home is disconnected from the utility, Enphase microinverters in the battery seamlessly form a microgrid to ensure there is no disruption. The lights will not flicker. The clocks will not reset. Next, our smart switch starts the standby generator. Once the generator is stable, the system synchronizes the microgrid to the generator's voltage and frequency. Our smart switch then seamlessly connects the home to the generator. The Enphase solution provides increased resilience in the off-grid mode by enabling solar, storage and the generators to run together. The generator control will also be integrated into our mobile app so that homeowners have full visibility and control from one app. There are two modes of operation. One is the basic mode, where the generator simply turns on during an outage. And the other is that the generator can be configured to turn on depending on the state of charge of the battery during an outage. For example, when the battery charge goes below 20% in an outage, the generator turns on, charges the battery, supports the home loads. And once the battery reaches 90%, the generator returns off. These are two powerful features and we expect to release them this quarter after beta testing with customers, which is under way. We are seeing a good amount of interest from customers. And these features can be enabled simply by over the air software upgrades for existing storage systems, along with some additional minimal work to be done by the installers. In summary, we are happy with our Q1 storage shipments reaching 42 megawatt hours. And as I said, we expect to introduce a couple of differentiated new features to improve the homeowner experience. We expect to reduce the commissioning times to improve the installer experience, and we expect to make significant go to market changes to improve the brand experience. We expect our storage shipment volumes between 40 and 50-megawatt hours in Q2. Let's talk more on upcoming new products. First, I'd like to cover more details on what else is new for storage. In addition to the new features we talked about, we are partnering with aggregators and utilities to enable grid services. This will enable utilities to leverage home battery storage systems instead of turning on peaker plants. And in doing so, the homeowners can get paid for providing that service. We have formed a 20% grid services team at Enphase now, consisting of software, product management, business development and policy experts. This team has already made tremendous progress on technical and business fronts and we plan to expand the team significantly to engage with more utilities and aggregators. Final point on storage. We are working hard to introduce the Enphase storage systems internationally, as I said before. We want to ensure that all learning from North America is captured and that we are fully staffed to support customers. We expect to introduce Enphase storage systems first into Europe and then into Australia in the second half of 2021. Let's cover our upcoming IQ 8 and IQ 8D product launches. IQ 8 is the world's first grid agnostic microinverter for residential solar, and IQ 8D is a high power microinverter capable of supporting two panels for small commercial installer. We are making good progress on the compliance, reliability and system testing on these products. However, with the microinverter supply chain constraints due to semiconductor component shortages, we expect a slower ramp beginning in Q3. We also plan to introduce the Enphase portable power station consumer products in Q4, assuming component shortages are under control. Let's now turn to digital transformation. I'm excited about our two completed acquisitions: Sofdesk and the solar business of DIN Engineering. The former Sofdesk team, now known as Enphase Montreal, provide design and proposal software for solar and roofing companies. The team acquired from DIN Engineering, now known as Enphase Noida, provides proposal and permitting services to the installers. By providing these services to installers, we aim to simplify the sales process while reducing Sof's costs and providing an enhanced buying experience for homeowners. The obvious opportunity for Enphase is to expand both these offerings to our network of long tail installers. This is an important initiative for us and we will be integrating these two company operations into our digital platform. We have now onboarded 476 installers in North America and 138 installers in Australia to our Enphase Installer Network, EIN, through a highly selective process focused on quality and homeowner experience. We recently launched our EIN in Europe and India. Our EIN installers enjoy a variety of benefits, including branding, promotion and tools and services on the digital platform to help make sales and installation process faster and easier. In summary, we are happy with our performance, and we are pleased with the increased demand for our products. We look forward to introducing our new products, ramping our storage systems, supporting our customers better and accelerating our digital transformation. As always, the health and safety of our employees, the customers and partners remain our top priority as the world continues to be impacted by COVID-19. With that, I will hand the call over to Eric for his review of our finances. Eric?Eric Branderiz -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Badri, and good afternoon, everyone. I will provide more details related to our first quarter of 2021 financial results, as well as our business outlook for the second quarter of 2021. We have provided a reconciliation of these non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures in our earnings release posted today, which can also be found in the IR section of our website. Total revenue for Q1 was $301.8 million, representing an increase of 14% sequentially. We shipped approximately 830 megawatts DC of microinverter and 42 megawatt hours of storage systems in the first quarter, equivalent to 16.1 megawatts of power. Non-GAAP gross margin for Q1 was 41.1% compared to 40.2% for Q4. The increase was driven by disciplined pricing and cost management. GAAP gross margin was 40.7% for Q1. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $43.7 million for Q1 compared to $34.2 million for Q4. The sequential increase was primarily due to R&D investments, increased hiring, payroll tax associated with employee stock vesting and first-time consolidation of Sofdesk operations in late January. GAAP operating expenses were $61.6 million for Q1 compared to $42.8 million for Q4. GAAP operating expenses for Q1 including $13.9 million of stock-based compensation expenses and $4 million of acquisition expenses and amortization for acquired intangible assets. On a non-GAAP basis, income from operations was $80.2 million for Q1, compared to $72.4 million for Q4. On a GAAP basis, income from operation was $61.4 million for Q1 compared to $79.1 million for Q4. On a non-GAAP basis, net income for Q1 was $78.7 million compared to $71.3 million for Q4. This resulted in diluted earnings per share of $0.56 for Q1 compared to $0.51 per share for Q4. GAAP net income for Q1 was $31.7 million compared to GAAP net income of $73 million for Q4. GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.22 for Q1 compared to diluted earnings per share of $0.50 for Q4. The GAAP results in the first quarter included a non-cash loss of $56.4 million on the partial settlement of convertible notes due 2024 and 2025 or approximately $0.40 on a per share basis. Now, turning to the balance sheet and the working capital front. Inventory was $34.9 million at the end of Q1 compared to $41.8 million at the end of Q4. The sequential decrease in inventory was driven by an increase in customer demand coupled with supply constraints. Days of inventory outstanding decreased to 18 days compared to 27 days in Q4. This sequential decrease was driven by the lower average inventory balance and higher shipment volumes. Our target is 30 days, but we were hampered by supply cost trends. Accounts receivable were $236.1 million at the end of Q1 compared to $182.2 million at the end of Q4. The sequential increase was due to the higher revenue in Q1 and shipments being weighted to the second half of the quarter. DSO of 56 days increased from 50 days in the prior quarter due to the timing of shipments. We exited Q1 with a total cash balance of approximately $1.5 billion compared to $679.4 million for Q4. The cash balance includes net proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion for the comparable notes issuance in May 2021, which are partially offset by $304.8 million paid in principal amounts for the partial repurchase and conversions of the convertible notes due 2024 and 2025 and $65.4 million paid for the call spread on the new convertible notes issuance. We did not make any share repurchases against our $200 million share repurchase authorization. In March, we issued green convertible notes in two tranches for total gross proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion. Both tranches have zero coupon. The five-year tranche due 2026 raised gross proceeds of $632.5 million. With a 70% conversion premium, these notes are in the money at the share price of approximately $307. The seven-year tranche due 2028 raised gross proceeds of $575 million with 57.5% conversion premium. This tranche is in the money at the share price of $285. Concurrent with the notes offering, we entered into a call spread overlay, which effectively increased the overall conversion price to about $398 per share. The terms of this capital raise were some of the most favorable to an issuer in history. We have a very strong cash position on a business that generate healthy free cash flow. We will invest in the business through organic and inorganic activities. We have a capex-light business model, which provides for continued investment in new product development, new market entry and marketing to build our brand awareness with homeowners. On the acquisition front, we have an active pipeline and we are careful to only pursue deals with the right strategic and cultural fit, while meeting our return hurdles. In Q1, we generated $75.8 million in cash flow from operations and $81.5 million in free cash flow. Capital expenditures was $9.9 million for Q1 to increase manufacturing capacity for both microinverters and storage and costs related to enlighten software app development, corporate website development and office space expansion. Now, let's discuss our outlook for the second quarter of 2021. We expect our revenue for the quarter to be within a range of 300 to $320 million. We expect GAAP gross margin to be within a range of 37 to 40% and non-GAAP gross margin to be within a range of 38 to 41%, which excludes stock-based compensation expenses. We expect our GAAP operating expenses to be within a range of 70 to $73 million, including a total of approximately $17 million estimated for stock-based compensation expenses and acquisition related expenses and amortization. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be within a range of 53 to $56 million. All guidance estimates include the contribution from both Sofdesk and DIN for the entire quarter. Let me provide some additional color on a few topics. First, given the component supply constraints, we are expediting components and finished goods in Q2 to ensure customers have an adequate supply of our products. Even as component availability starts to improve this quarter, we must rush to get those components into final products into our customers' hands. As a result, our GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin guidance incorporates a material sequential increase in expedite expense. While we expect Q2 to be the peak, logistics costs will likely remain elevated for the rest of 2021 due to the semiconductor supply chain constraints. Next, I would like to touch upon our opex guidance. Our non-GAAP operating expenses are increasing from Q1 to Q2 due to hiring to support our growth plans, the consolidation of acquisitions and necessary investments in software, branding and the development of IQ 9 and IQ 10 microinverters. It is possible that our opex may be slightly above our 15% target at times, but we'll still expect to comfortably exceed our baseline financial model target of 20% operating income. Regarding the two acquisitions, not only do have the operating expenses of those business, but we also include accruals for the payment of deferred cash consideration. These are cash expenses, which is why we included them in non-GAAP guidance, but there are nonrecurring in nature beyond the specific earn out periods for each acquisition. For Q2, accruals for deferred consideration are expected to be approximately $3.5 million. With that, I will now open the line for questions. 