
OperatorWelcome to the Johnson Controls Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time.I will now go ahead and turn over the call to Antonella Franzen, Vice President and Chief Investor Relations and Communications Officer.Antonella Franzen -- Vice President and Chief Investor Relations and Communications Officer

 



Good morning, and thank you for joining our conference call to discuss Johnson Control's third quarter fiscal 2021 results. The press release and all related tables issued earlier this morning as well as the conference call slide presentation can be found on the Investor Relations portion of our website at johnsoncontrols.com. Joining me on the call today are Johnson Controls' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, George Oliver; and our Chief Financial Officer, Olivier Leonetti.Before we begin, I would like to remind you that during the course of today's call, we will be providing certain forward-looking information. We ask that you review today's press release and read the forward-looking cautionary informational statements that we've included there. In addition, we will use certain non-GAAP measures in our discussions, and we ask that you read through the sections of our press release that address the use of these items.In discussing our results during the call, references to adjusted earnings per share EBITA and EBIT exclude restructuring and integration costs as well as other special items. These metrics, together with organic sales and free cash flow, are non-GAAP measures and are reconciled in the schedules attached to our press release and in the appendix to the presentation posted on our website. Additionally, all comparisons to the prior year are on a continuing ops basis.Now let me turn the call over to George.

 



George Oliver -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Antonella, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on the call today. Let me kick things off with a brief update, spotlighting a few specific areas related to our strategic initiatives and Olivier will provide a detailed review of Q3 results and update you on our forward outlook. We will leave as much time as possible to take your questions.Let's get started on Slide 3. Another quarter of solid results with demand accelerating across most of our end markets as a robust recovery continues to expand. Q3 represents our easiest comparison of the year, but I am encouraged to see the underlying sequential improvement experienced in the first half continue to accelerate in the third quarter, with many of our businesses back to operating at pre-pandemic volume levels.Nonresidential construction markets continue to recover, led by the ongoing strength in retrofit activity tied to demand for healthy building solutions. New construction is also beginning to show signs of stabilization and the inflection in order trends for our longer cycle project businesses sets us up well as we look to next year and beyond.

 



Our service business has recovered, and we continue to transform this business through our digital service strategy to drive higher levels of recurring revenue and an improved growth profile. This recovery has not been without its challenges. We have managed through significant headwinds related to persistent supply chain disruptions, component shortages, labor constraints and continued inflation. While these dynamics have created some revenue pressure, which will continue near term, the pace and composition of order growth in the quarter provides confidence that we will remain on track over the medium and long term.Our teams have done an excellent job navigating these challenges, and I'd like to acknowledge and thank them for the tremendous amount of time and effort dedicated to meeting our customer needs, particularly over these last several quarters.As you may recall, in an effort to mitigate the severe impact of the volume declines during the height of the pandemic, we implemented significant cost actions last year. These actions provided a material boost to profitability in the prior year period and led to best-in-class decrementals.Lapping that difficult comparison in managing the return of some of those variable costs, coupled with navigating current capacity constraints and supply disruptions, has resulted in significant margin pressure. That said, we were able to deliver better-than-expected margin expansion in the quarter and remain on-track to meet our targets for the full year, which is a remarkable accomplishment in the current environment.At the same time, we remain laser-focused on executing our strategy, which is driving continued share gains. As we will discuss over the next few slides, we continue to advance our efforts to deliver innovative solutions to help customers enhance building performance and reduce costs, while achieving their net-zero carbon and renewable energy goals. This will be accomplished through our ongoing digital transformation enabled by OpenBlue and accelerating our offerings to deliver the outcomes our customers need.Please turn to Slide 4. Continuing our trend to highlight a few notable achievements over the past quarter, recently, we launched the latest offering under our OpenBlue platform Net Zero Buildings as a Service. I will spend more time on this announcement in a few minutes as this represents an important step forward in enabling our customers' achievement of decarbonization and sustainability commitments.We have now filed our 200th U.S. patent application and received 90 U.S. patents for OpenBlue energy optimization innovations. We announced another strategic partnership with DigiCert, which will allow us to leverage their IoT device manager, an industry-leading automated digital certificate platform to encrypt data and authenticate the identity of users, devices or services within a building. This will further expand Johnson Controls' already robust capabilities around cybersecurity risk management, providing our customers peace of mind and resilient solutions that ensure hardware, software and communications remain trusted throughout the building life cycle.Together with the announcement of our partnership with Pelion last quarter, OpenBlue solutions users will have confidence that their devices are safely and securely connected to the network.About two weeks ago, we launched the Community College partnership program aimed at expanding and advancing associate degree and certificate programs in HVAC, fire and security and digital building automation systems across the U.S. Over the next five years, Johnson Controls will grant $15 million to nonprofit community colleges in support of academic programs that train and develop the next generation of skilled trades technicians.In addition to the funding, Johnson Controls employees will be increasing their support through volunteer and mentorship programs and also provide a pathway for our student internships and entry-level employment opportunities.Lastly, we are proud to have received additional recognition for our efforts to ensure we create a diverse and inclusive work environment, recently being named as one of the best companies for multicultural women by Seramount. We are also proud to be a part of the full 2021 list of best employees for diversity as well as the Financial Times European Climate Leaders list, further demonstrating our commitment to sustainability.Before I move to the next slide, I wanted to welcome Vijay Sankaran, our Chief Technology Officer to the team. Vijay is transforming our software organization, strengthening our engineering development processes and expanding the solution set of our OpenBlue platform. We are excited to have Vijay on board. He is already having an incredible impact internally, and you will hear more from him at our upcoming Investor Day.Let's move to Slide 5 for a brief update on trends in our service business. As we have shared with you over the past couple of quarters, accelerating growth in service has been a strategic initiative underway since well before the pandemic. Ultimately, the actions we are taking are designed to drive 200 or 300 basis points of above-market growth, which would place us firmly in the mid-single-digit annual growth range for the entire $6-plus billion in revenues.Our approach is multifaceted, simultaneously focusing on increasing our contractual service attach rate, reducing attrition and driving higher revenue per user while transforming our offerings through digital. Enabling higher digital content and connecting our installed base compounds our ability to create higher levels of recurring revenue over time.In the quarter, service revenue increased 11%, in line with the rebound we expected with double-digit growth across all three regions. Order growth also accelerated, as expected, up 13%. And our attachment rate year-to-date has now improved close to 400 basis points, already achieving our guidance range for the full year.We expect to continue this pace going forward, again, aided by our digital services and solutions, which were up mid-teens in the quarter.Please go to Slide 6. I referenced our new OpenBlue offering, Net Zero Buildings as a Service back on Slide 4, and I thought I would spend a few minutes highlighting the importance of this launch.Not only does this offering fulfill an immediate need as expressed by our customers, it also represents the next phase in the evolution of our digital, smart buildings offerings, which will drive our shift toward increased deployment of higher recurring as-a-service revenue models.Our broad Building Systems portfolio and market-leading capabilities and expertise in ESCO projects combined with the OpenBlue software platform, uniquely positions Johnson Controls to provide customers with guaranteed outcomes and risk management models to achieve their emission reduction commitments.Based on our high level of customer engagement and the extensive market-backed research conducted leading up to the development of this solution, the need for a trusted partner to deliver a one-source seamless road map to net-zero and the urgency to reduce carbon emissions is clear. What is also clear is that digitally enabled solutions that tie together the IT and OT in the built environment are the only ways to provide these road maps.And nearly $250 billion, sustainability and decarbonization is a once-in-a-generation opportunity and we are excited about our role in leading these critical trends. Net Zero Buildings as a Service includes a full portfolio of sustainability offerings tailored to schools, campuses, data centers, healthcare facilities as well as commercial and industrial verticals. It leverages a game-changing new solution, Net Zero Advisor, which delivers turnkey, AI-driven tracking and reporting of sustainability metrics and helps building operators ensure improved carbon reduction and renewable energy impacts of their buildings.We also leveraged the full OpenBlue suite of connected solutions and services offered through flexible risk-sharing models that enable tailored deal structures where end users pay for outcomes rather than assets.Turning quickly to Slide 7. Just a few examples of customer wins tied to the theme of decarbonization and Net Zero. I won't go through each of these. But in every example, Johnson Controls is providing unique solutions to solve the outcomes our customers are looking for.Some of these new relationships are borne out of our digital partner ecosystem while some are long-standing relationships where we are converting existing building automation systems to OpenBlue or advancing customers' ongoing sustainability initiatives. In all of these, we are driving energy efficiency, reducing energy consumption, driving cost savings and emission reductions.Before I turn things over to Olivier to review our financial performance in more detail, let me conclude my opening remarks by saying, I remain extremely encouraged by the demand patterns playing out across our portfolio. Our teams remain dedicated to achieving top-tier performance despite some of the short-term challenges we are facing. We are watching closely the resurgence of COVID cases and the potential impacts renewed lockdowns and supply chain constraints may or may not have on project activity. And from a supply chain perspective, we are confident in our ability to manage access to critical materials and components.Although lead times and conversion cycles are stretching, we believe conditions will begin to improve over the next couple of quarters. We are successfully leveraging our pricing capabilities to offset inflation, and we still expect to remain price cost positive for the year. At the same time, we are making tremendous progress on our strategic initiatives to accelerate top line growth and improve profitability, including indoor air quality, decarbonization, smart buildings, digital services and our productivity program, and we continue to reinvest in our portfolio, both organically and inorganically. We believe we are extremely well positioned to outperform throughout the next cycle.With that, let me turn it over to Olivier to go through the details of the quarter.Olivier Leonetti -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, George, and good morning, everyone. Continuing on Slide 8. Organic sales accelerated in Q3, up 15% overall, in line with the guidance we provided last quarter as growth in Global Products and our field businesses accelerated. The strength in Global Products was across the board from continued high level of demand in residential end markets, including both our global HVAC equipment and security products to the anticipated rebound in commercial HVAC and Fire & Security.Segment EBITA increased 21% versus the prior year and segment EBITA margin expanded 30 basis points to 16.2%. Better leverage on higher volumes, the benefit of our SG&A actions and strong execution more than offset the significant headwind from the reversal of temporary cost reductions and a modest headwind from negative price cost.EPS of $0.83 increased 24%, benefiting from higher profitability as well as a lower share count. On cash, we had another strong quarter. Free cash flow in the quarter was $735 million, flat versus the prior year despite the planned uptick in capex. I will review further details of our performance later in the call.Please turn to Slide 9. Orders for our field businesses increased 18% year-over-year, accelerating at a faster pace than expected, led by continued strength in retrofit project activity, which we include in install, but also stabilization in new construction activity.Service orders recovered above pre-pandemic level, up 13%, led primarily by improving conditions for our transactional service business. Backlog grew 7% to $10 billion with service backlog up 5% and installed backlog up 7%. Conversion rates in our service backlog continued to accelerate. Our installed backlog flow is improving, particularly given the rebound in retrofit activity, which turns more quickly.Turning to our EPS bridge on Slide 10. Let me touch on a few key items. Operations were a $0.16 tailwind versus the prior year, driven by higher volumes and favorable mix, partially offset by price cost and the reversal of prior year mitigating cost actions. Just to further emphasize the magnitude of the headwinds from the temporary actions. Excluding this impact, underlying incrementals in Q3 were just over 30%.We're on track with our SG&A productivity program, which equated to a benefit of around $0.03. Since we spoke last time, we have already begun taking some of the necessary actions to achieve the savings related to our COGS program, which will begin impacting the P&L in fiscal 2022. We are well on-track to achieve our savings targets for fiscal '21 and beyond.Let's turn to Slide 11 to discuss our segment results in more detail. My commentary will also refer to the segment end market performance included on Slide 12. North America revenues grew 8% organically with solid growth in both service and install. Service revenues were higher in all domain, driven by a sharp rebound in our transactional service business, which increased nearly 30%.Installed demand, which is the area of our business that was most impacted by supply chain disruptions, continues to be driven by shorter cycle retrofit and upgrade projects in addition to easier prior year comparisons.By domain, commercial applied HVAC revenue grew mid-single digits, while Fire & Security increased low double digits in the quarter. We had another strong quarter in performance infrastructure, which also grew revenues low double digits. This business has a leading position in the ESCO market, which is well positioned to address customers' decarbonization needs.Segment margin decreased 70 basis points year-over-year to 14.7% as North America experienced the most headwinds from the reversal of temporary cost given the majority of the action in the prior year related to furloughs and other employee compensation-related expense.Orders in North America accelerated on a sequential basis and grew 18% versus the prior year with mid-teens growth in Fire & Security and performance infrastructure. Commercial HVAC orders were up over 20% overall, driven by strong retrofit activity with equipment orders up over 50%. Backlog to $6.2 billion increased 6% year-over-year.Revenue in EMEALA increased 17% organically, led by strong recovery in installed activity. Non-resi construction grew more than 25% in the quarter, with most verticals returning to 2019 levels, led by increased demand for energy-related infrastructure projects.Fire & Security, which accounts for nearly 60% of segment revenues inflected sharply, growing at a mid-20s rate in Q3 and surfacing 2019 levels. Industrial refrigeration grew 20% and commercial HVAC and controls grew high single digits.By geography, revenue growth in Europe accelerated to nearly 25%, while the Middle East declined low double digits and Latin America increased 10%. Segment EBITA margins increased 250 basis points, driven by volume leverage and the benefit of SG&A actions.Orders in EMEALA accelerated further, increasing 22% in the quarter with strong growth in Fire & Security and Commercial HVAC. APAC revenues increased 14% organically with install and service increasing by the same amount.Commercial HVAC and controls revenue grew mid-teens, primarily driven by the ongoing recovery we are seeing in China. EBITA margins declined 380 basis points year-over-year to 11.8% as the benefit of volume leverage was more than offset by the significant temporary cost mitigation actions taken in the prior year and geographic mix.APAC orders grew 14%, driven by continued strength in Commercial HVAC in China and recovery in controls business in Japan. Economic conditions outside of China remain mixed with uncertainty increasing as ongoing and renewed lockdown restrictions across parts of Southeast Asia, Australia and part of Japan following rise in COVID cases and continued delays in the rollout of vaccines.Global Products revenue grew 21% on an organic basis in the quarter, in line with what we initially expected despite incremental headwinds related to COVID lockdown in Asia and the short-term supply chain restrictions.In aggregate, we continue to gain share across most of our portfolio. Our global Residential HVAC business was up 16% in the quarter, with strong growth in all regions. North America resi HVAC grew mid-teens in the quarter, slightly ahead of our expectations, benefiting from a stronger sell-through demand, particularly in April and May.Our JCH Residential HVAC business was up high teens, led by strong share gains in Japan and Taiwan as part of a successful effort to attain the number-one residential share position in those markets. Although not reflected in our revenue growth, our iSense joint venture grew revenue 44% year-over-year in Q3, expanding our leading shares in China.Commercial HVAC sales improved significantly up more than 20% with our indirect applied business up more 25%. Light commercial industry up over 20%, led by the recovery in North America and VRF up high single digits.Fire & Security products growth was above 30%, led by continued strength in our security business, which grew over 40% in the quarter. Commercial fire detection and suppression products were up low to mid-20s on easier year comparisons and the stabilization in key vertical markets.EBITDA margin expanded 140 basis points year-over-year to 20.9% as volume leverage, positive mix increased equity income and the benefit of SG&A actions more than offset the significant temporary cost actions taken in the prior year as well as current price cost pressure.Turning to Slide 13. As expected, corporate expense increased significantly year-over-year of an abnormally low level to $70 million. For the full year, we now expect corporate expense to be in the range of $280 million to $285 million, slightly below the low end of the prior guide.For modeling purposes, we have included an updated outlook for some of our below-the-line items. I would point out that amortization expense now reflects the impact of Silent-Aire.Turning to our balance sheet and cash flow on Slide 14, starting with the balance sheet at the top of the page. Similar to last quarter, no significant changes versus the prior period other than the net reduction in cash due to the closing of the Silent-Aire transaction. Our balance sheet remains healthy with leverage of roughly 1.8 times, still below our targeted range of 2 times to 2.5 times.On cash, we generated $735 million in free cash flow in the quarter, bringing us to nearly $1.7 billion year-to-date. This is a significant improvement compared to our normal year-to-date seasonality and has been driven by solid trade working capital management and the timing of capex and order payments.We expect a much lower conversion level in the fourth quarter given the reversal of some timing benefits. For the full year, we expect free cash flow conversion to be approximately 105%.During the third quarter, we repurchased a little more than 5 million shares for roughly $340 million, which brings us to around 19 million shares year-to-date, completing our $1 billion program. We expect to repurchase an incremental $350 million of shares in Q4.Please turn to Slide 15, for a look at our updated guidance. For the full year, we're raising our guidance once again and now target adjusted EPS in the range of $2.64 to $2.66. This puts the midpoint at the high end of our previous EPS guidance of $2.58 to $2.65.Based on our strong performance year-to-date and the continued underlying momentum we are seeing in most of our end markets, we continue to expect organic sales growth in the mid-single digits. Segment EBITA margins are tracking toward the high end of our most recent range, and we now expect 80 to 90 basis points of expansion for the full year, which includes a 10-basis point headwind related to the acquisition of Silent-Aire.Based on the full year guide, Q4 adjusted EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.86 to $0.88, which assumes mid-single-digit organic revenue growth and 30 basis points of segment EBITA margin expansion.Before we get into your questions, just a quick update on our Investor Day plan for September 8. We made the decision to host the event virtually. Registration details will be available over the next couple of weeks.With that, operator, we can open the line for questions.
OperatorWelcome to the Johnson Controls Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded, and if you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.I would now turn the call over to Antonella Franzen, Vice President, Chief Investor Relations and Communications Officer.Antonella Franzen -- Chief Investor Relations and Communications Officer

 



Good morning and thank you for joining our conference call to discuss Johnson Controls second quarter fiscal 2021 results. The press release and all related tables issued earlier this morning, as well as the conference call slide presentation, can be found on the Investor Relations portion of our website at johnsoncontrols.comJoining me on the call today are Johnson Controls' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, George Oliver; and our Chief Financial Officer, Olivier Leonetti.Before we begin, I would like to remind you that during the course of today's call, we will be providing certain forward-looking information. We ask that you review today's press release and read through the forward-looking cautionary informational statements that we've included there.In addition, we will use certain non-GAAP measures in our discussions and we ask that you read through the sections of our press release that address the use of these items. In discussing our results during the call, references to adjusted earnings per share, EBITDA and EBIT exclude restructuring and integration costs, as well as other special items. These metrics, together with organic sales and free cash flow, are non-GAAP measures and are reconciled in the schedule attached to our press release and in the accompanying index to the presentation posted on our website. Additionally, all comparisons to the prior year are on a continuing ops basis.

 



Now, let me turn the call over to George.George Oliver -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Antonella, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call. I will start with a brief strategic update while adding a few specific areas related to our growth initiatives. Olivier will provide a detailed review of Q2 results, and update you on our forward outlook, and we will leave as much time as possible to take your questions.Let's get started on Slide 3. We delivered another quarter of solid financial performance. Organic sales and order growth inflected positive, as anticipated, which when combined with our ongoing commitment to operational excellence, enabled us to grow EBIT by more than 20% year-over-year. Despite some challenges in the macro environment, inflationary pressures, supply chain disruptions and the lingering impacts of COVID-19, trends across most of our end markets continued to improve and we continued to gain share.

 



We have maintained an incredible level of engagement with our teams globally, as well as with our customers and partners. And we continue to execute on all of our strategic initiatives, expanding our service attachment rate and driving higher recurring revenue, enhancing and connecting our installed base with our digital OpenBlue platform and advancing our role in addressing the environmental needs of our customers.Lastly, as promised, we are announcing our Cost Of Goods Reduction program on today's call, which targets $250 million in run-rate savings by fiscal 2023.In combination with the SG&A actions we announced earlier this quarter, we expect to deliver $550 million in net savings, which provide significant margin expansion over the next several years. These actions are a testament to our commitment of continuous improvement and will enable us to close our margin gap versus peers.Let's turn to Slide 4. As was the case last quarter, we have had a number of strategic announcements. A few of the more notable examples are listed on the slide. Each of these is significant in its own way, but I do want to take a minute to touch on two in particular, and that's the announced acquisition of Silent-Aire and the partnership with Pelion.We are extremely excited to welcome the Silent-Aire team into the Johnson Controls family. Their best-in-class portfolio of innovative cooling equipment and modular data center technologies is tailored to hyperscalers. These specialized data center providers are building and operating the critical infrastructure that the world needs in the rapid global transition to consuming cloud-based Software-as-a-Service. There is a well-established entrepreneurial spirit throughout Silent-Aire, combined with a customer-centric culture, deep subject matter expertise and a long history of seamless execution.Expanding our exposure to the data center vertical and specifically, the high growth hyperscale market has been a high priority over the last several years. Silent-Aire accelerates these efforts considerably and, together, we have an opportunity to leverage a best of both approach to fuel growth in this end market globally, with a high return profile and immediate earnings accretion.We also announced a transformational partnership with the leading technology player in connected IoT device management, Pelion, a division of ARM Technologies. Put simply, this partnership allows us to bring connected intelligence to all of the operational technology, be it heat pumps, security sensors or air handling systems and buildings. This partnership will help remove the complexities associated with pushing that intelligence to the edge by leveraging Pelion's connected device platform with secure, simple integrations across a diverse installed base of hardware.Pelion's open flexible device management capabilities will allow OpenBlue to run on any device, in any hardware configuration at cloud scale and address the challenges with monitoring and maintaining performance at the edge.Moving to Slide 5. Turning to the theme of sustainability. We wanted to spend a few minutes highlighting one of the more important secular trends that we expect will benefit our industry for the next decade plus, and that is decarbonization. With buildings representing approximately 40% of global greenhouse gas emissions, large-scale investment in decarbonization is at an inflection point. We have seen corporate commitments to meeting science-based targets from over 1,000 companies and countless commitment to net zero operations from the private sector.Federal policies and stimulus to incentivize investment in the renovation of existing infrastructure is growing and regulations designed to reduce emissions are increasing. We see the investment required for commercial buildings to achieve net zero, extending into the hundreds of billions of dollars.We believe we are uniquely positioned to capitalize on this once-in-a-generation opportunity with a combination of efficient building systems and smart technologies that are connected via our digital infrastructure, OpenBlue, as well as our global presence, enabling us to convert on a local scale.Turning quickly to Slide 6. We are enabling net zero buildings today with a value proposition that is centered around transferring the risk of delivering building decarbonization from the building owner to JCI, leveraging flexible, customizable turnkey solutions and our improving capability of delivering energy savings and emission reductions.One such solution is OpenBlue Enterprise Manager, a comprehensive suite of applications to monitor and improve energy efficiency, tenant satisfaction, asset performance, maintenance operations, space performance and -- ultimately -- the comfort of all occupants. Using a single pane of glass approach, Enterprise Manager delivers the next generation of smart building capabilities or portfolios ranging from commercial offices, healthcare, mixed-use high-end, transportation, retail and K-12 school systems.Turning to Slide 7. Another increasing area of focus when it comes to addressing decarbonization is the electrification of heat. This is a market that is growing at a high single-digit CAGR overall with a lot of that growth being driven by demand in Europe and Asia as a result of the increased level of environmental regulations in these regions that minimize the use of fossil fuels and mandate low GWP refrigerants.Many of you have asked recently about our offerings in this space. And from my perspective, I would tell you we have one of the broadest portfolios of heat pump technologies in the industry. As you can see, our portfolio spans all major building segments, residential, commercial and industrial, covering a wide range of capacities and equipment configurations. We are the leader in the Complex segment, which serves applications like district heating and industrial process manufacturing, with the most complete offering stretching between our applied and industrial refrigeration portfolios and utilizing natural and HFO refrigerants.District Heating is an exciting subsegment of growth in this category, particularly across Europe and China. In fact, we have had several major district heating project wins in these two regions recently, supplying customers with customizable solutions to help achieve their environmental goals and lower energy costs substantially. We also have a strong market position across commercial and residential markets in China with leading technologies in Applied and Ductless.Turning to Slide 8 and staying on the theme of sustainability. Our customers are challenged with balancing costs and achieving their sustainability goals. Our solutions are positioned to address those challenges and be more agile in providing outcome-based solutions and services centered around integrated data and reduce energy and cost while providing an attractive return on investment.As you can see on Slide 9, the enhanced capabilities enabled by OpenBlue, combined with our performance infrastructure business are proving to be a powerful combination in the current environment. Our energy savings performance contracts offer customers a budget-neutral way to fund the improvements necessary to reduce energy intensity and the environmental footprint of a building through guaranteed operational savings. This is a business we have been in for two decades, having implemented well over 3,000 performance contracts in North America alone with a portfolio of over $6 billion in guaranteed savings.Utilizing OpenBlue-as-a-Service, we help our customers make and implement the decisions that improve a building's total cost of occupancy, energy and carbon profile as well as the well-being of their occupants without customers having to manage the process.We ensure our consistent availability to buildings and a predictable cost of operations. As a result, building owners are able to focus on their mission and their business. We are proud to be partnering with our customers on several new projects. We have listed five recent wins that showcase our ability to power sustainability for our customers.Before I turn things over to Olivier to review the financial performance for the quarter, let me wrap up my opening remarks by saying, we had a very strong first half of the year and I am extremely encouraged by the momentum we are seeing across Johnson Controls. Our teams remain focused on execution and are committed to achieving top-tier performance. We have a number of initiatives in-flight designed to accelerate top line growth and improve profitability and ensure we expand our competitive advantages.We continue to reinvest in our portfolio both organically and inorganically, and we believe we are extremely well positioned to outperform as we look to the second half of fiscal '21 and beyond.With that, let me turn it over to Olivier to go through the details of the quarter.Olivier Leonetti -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, George, and good morning, everyone. Continuing on Slide 10. Organic sales inflected positive, as anticipated in Q2, up 1% overall, with strong growth in Global Products and underlying trends improving across our field businesses. The strength in Global Products was driven by continued high levels of the vend in residential end markets, not only in our HVAC equipment business but also in Security products.The field businesses continued to improve on a sequential basis with service revenues having inflected positive and Install down low single digits. We have been encouraged by the more recent development of our order pipeline with clear signs of notable improvements in long cycle project activity.Segment EBITDA increased 15% versus the prior year, and segment EBITDA margin expanded 130 basis points to 12.7%. Despite the modest recovery in overall volume growth, we have maintained our disciplined approach to managing the cost structure, resulting in additional year-over-year cost savings. We also benefited from strong execution across the board as well as positive price costs, helping to expand our gross margins by 80 basis points.EPS of $0.52 increased 24%, benefiting from higher profitability as well as lower share count. We had another strong quarter of free cash flow performance, up significantly versus the prior year to over $500 billion in Q2.I will review further details of our performance later in the call.Please turn to Slide 11. Orders for our field businesses increased 4% year-over-year, inflecting positive and stronger than originally planned, led by a strong rebound in retrofit project activity, which we include in in-store.Backlog grew 4% to $9.6 billion, with service backlog up 5% to $2.4 billion and Install backlog up 4% to $7.2 billion. Conversion rates in our service backlog continued to accelerate, which gives us more confidence in our mid-single-digit service growth outlook for the year. Our Install backlog flow rate is improving, particularly given the rebound in shorter-term retrofit activity.Turning to our EPS bridge on Slide 12. Operations were $0.10 tailwind versus the prior year, driven by higher volume, positive price cost and the incremental benefits from previous cost actions, which offset regional and business mix headwinds. Net financing charges added an additional $0.02, mainly the result of favorable FX gains and noncontrolling interest was a $0.05 headwind as a result of stronger year-over-year performance in our Hitachi joint venture. Lower share count and net favorability from other items were a combined $0.03 tailwind.Let us turn to Slide 13 to discuss our segment results in more details. My commentary will also refer to the segment end market performance included on Slide 14. North America revenues declined 4% organically, driven by a 7% decline in Install.As demand for shorter-term retrofit and upgrade projects continues to improve and comps become easier in the second half of the year, we expect the Install side of our business to grow as we move forward. Service revenues were flat in the quarter with our recurring contractual service business up low single digits, offset by continued pressure in transactional service linked to customers' lower discretionary spend. But domain applied HVAC revenues declined mid-single digits, while Fire & Security declined mid- to- high-single digits in the quarter.We had a very strong quarter in performance infrastructure, which was up mid-teens. Segment margin increased 110 basis points year-over-year to 12.7%, primarily reflecting strong gross margin performance, up 150 basis points and continued cost mitigation efforts.Orders in North America rebounded sharply on a sequential basis and grew 5% versus the prior year. Applied HVAC orders were up low double digits overall, driven by strong retrofit activity. Backlog of $6 billion increased 3% year-over-year.EMEALA revenues were essentially flat organically with the prior year with Install up 1% and service down 1%. The market conditions remain mixed with varying degree of lingering COVID restrictions and lockdown across many parts of Europe and Latin America.We saw low single-digit growth in our applied HVAC and control business, which was more than offset by low single-digit decline in Fire & Security, which improved on a sequential basis. Industrial refrigeration grew mid-single digits.By geography, revenue in Europe grew low single digits, while the Middle East improved sequentially due to an acceleration in HVAC demand. Latin America was down high single digits.EBITDA margin declined 40 basis points, including a 40-basis point headwind from FX. Excluding FX, EBITDA margin was flat as favorable price/mix and continued cost mitigation efforts were more than offset by lower volumes and lower equity income.Orders in EMEALA accelerated to up 5% in the quarter, led by mid-single-digit growth in Fire & Security and over 20% growth in Industrial Refrigeration. APAC revenues increased 9% organically with Install up 15% and services up 3%, both led by a recovery in applied HVAC and Control, which grew a little over 20%.Strength in HVAC was driven by the rapid recovery we are seeing in China, where revenue growth accelerated more than expected, up more than 60% year-over-year. Conditions outside of China remain mixed with sporadic lockdown restrictions across part of South East Asia and spike in COVID cases in India.EBITDA margins declined 10 basis points year-over-year to 12.3%, including a 20-basis point headwind from FX and the divestiture. Core margins improved by 10 basis points as the benefit of volume leverage was partially offset by unfavorable country mix.APAC orders declined 1% despite a 40% increase in China orders as the economic recovery in many of our other key geographies remain subdued due to the ongoing impacts of COVID and delayed rollouts of vaccines.Moving to Global Products. Revenue grew 6% on an organic basis in the quarter. Our global residential HVAC business was up about 20% in the quarter with strong growth in all regions. In North America, resi HVAC grew 35% in the quarter, slightly ahead of our expectations. as the market seems to remain in a V-shaped recovery, and we continue to gain share as a result of expanding our points of distribution and new product launches. Orders in the quarter were nearly up 90%, and we exited the quarter with a record level of backlog.In Asia Pacific, our JCH residential HVAC business was up in the mid-teens percent range with growth across all of our major regions: Japan, Taiwan and India. Although not reflected in our revenue growth, our Hisense JV in China grew revenues 90% year-over-year in Q2, which explains the majority of the growth in our equity income this quarter.On the commercial HVAC side, the sales decline significantly moderated to low single digits as high single-digit growth in our indirect applied business was more than offset by a decline in light commercial. Fire & Security products grew low single digits overall, led by continued strength in our security business with flattish performance in commercial fire detection and suppression markets.EBITDA margins expanded 280 basis points year-over-year to 14.2% as volume leverage positive price cost, higher equity income and the benefit of mitigating cost actions was partially offset by negative product mix.Turning to Page 15. Corporate expense was down 15% year-over-year to $70 million, benefiting from cost mitigation actions and continuous structural cost reductions. We do expect corporate expense to step up in the second half as some temporary cost reductions begin to reinstate.Given the favorable performance year-to-date, we now expect corporate expense to be in the range of $285 million to $295 million for the year. For modeling purposes, we have included an updated outlook for some of our below-the-line items.Turning to our balance sheet and cash flow on Slide 16. Starting with the balance sheet at the top of the page, similar to last quarter, no significant changes versus the prior period. During the second quarter, we repurchased approximately 6 million shares for roughly $315 million, which brings us to around 14 million shares year-to-date for just under $700 million. We remain committed to completing $1 billion in share repurchases in fiscal '21.As a reminder, you may recall that in mid-March, we announced an increase to our annual cash dividend of 4% to $1.08 per share, remaining within our target payout ratio of 40% to 45%. This is the first dividend raise since the divestiture of Power Solutions back in 2019, and we believe we are positioned to resume a pattern of solid dividend growth going forward.We also announced an increase to our existing share repurchase authorization, which gives us the capacity for a little less than $6 billion in buyback. Our balance sheet remains healthy with leverage of roughly 1. 8 times, still below our targeted range of 2 times to 2.5 times.On cash, we generated $539 million in free cash flow in the quarter, bringing us to nearly $1 billion for the first half. This is a significant improvement compared to our normal seasonality and has been driven by solid trade capital management, lower capex and timing of payments.As we enter our back half, we would expect lower conversion levels than what we have seen in the first half and compared to our historical seasonality, given the expected acceleration in our top line and capex spend.Before we turn to our guidance update, as George referenced at the start of the call, we're launching Phase 2 of our three years cost program, presenting the detail of our Cost Of Goods Saving plan on Slide 17. Similar to our SG&A savings plan announced intra-quarter, we completed a bottoms-up analysis of the entire $15 billion based on cost of goods sold and have thoroughly evaluated plans to optimize our spend in selected areas. We have included a breakdown of the addressable spend category on Slide 18.Based on our review, we have built a firm roadmap to $250 million in net run rate savings to be realized over the course of fiscal '22 and '23. Nearly three quarters of these savings are tied to plans that improve labor productivity, standardized project execution practices and streamlined by office activities across our branch-based businesses. The remaining 25% primarily address costs in our manufactured facility and supply chains, including leveraging best practices of our Level 3 GCOS facilities and deploying them across our manufacturing base.We have combined our SG&A and COGS saving programs into a single consolidated view on Slide 19. As you can see from the chart, we are targeting $550 million in combined net savings over the course of the next 2.5 years, which in addition to normal base margin improvement related to revenue growth, improved mix and annual productivity provides significant margin run rate potential. Delivering on this plan will ensure we close the margin gap versus peers and, in turn, create significant shareholder value.Please turn to Slide 20. We are initiating fiscal Q3 guidance for adjusted EPS of $0.80 to $0. 82, which is predicated on mid-teens organic revenue growth and more modest segment EBITDA margin performance compared to what we have experienced in the first half, given the significant temporary cost actions taken last year during the third quarter.For the full year, we're raising our guidance once again and now our target adjusted EPS in the range of $2.58 to $2.65. This compares to our most recent EPS guidance of $2.50 to $2.60 and our initial guide in January $2.45 to $2.55. you may recall that we provided updated EPS guidance intra-quarter in conjunction with our SG&A cost reduction plan in late February.Based on our strong performance in the first half, and continued underlying momentum we are seeing in most of our end markets, we are raising our organic sales growth outlook to the high end of our previous range.Segment EBITDA margins are tracking toward the high end of our most recent range, and we now expect 70 to 90 basis points of expansion for the full year. Free cash flow conversion is well on track for 100% for the full year.Before we get into our questions, I would like to point to our Slide 21 and ask you to save the date for our 2021 Investor Day, which will be held on September 8. More details to follow in the coming months.With that, operator, we can open the line for questions.