  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to Alliant Energy's conference call for first-quarter 2021 results. This call is being recorded for rebroadcast. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Susan Gille, investor relations manager at Alliant Energy.Susan Gille -- Investor Relations Manager Good morning. I would like to thank all of you on the call and the webcast for joining us today. We appreciate your participation. Joining me on this call are John Larsen, chair, president, and CEO; and Robert Durian, executive vice president, and CFO.

 



 Following prepared remarks by John and Robert, we will have time to take questions from the investment community. We issued a news release last night announcing Alliant Energy's first-quarter 2021 financial results. This release as well as supplemental slides that will be referenced during today's call are available on the Investor page of our website at www.alliantenergy.com. Before we begin, I need to remind you, the remarks we make on this call and our answers to questions include forward-looking statements.These forward-looking statements are subject to risks that could cause actual results to be materially different. Those risks include, among others, matters discussed in Alliant Energy's press release issued last night and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. In addition, this presentation contains references to non-GAAP financial measures. The reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP measures are provided in the earnings release and our 10-Q, which will be available on our website. At this point, I'll turn the call over to John. John Larsen -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Sue. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Our solid first-quarter results were as expected, continuing our long track record of delivering value for our customers, communities, and investors. We do this by innovating new approaches and delivering important energy solutions for our customers and the communities we proudly serve. Our purpose-driven strategy is thoughtful, flexible, and well-executed. The results speak for themselves. Later in the call, Robert will share more details on our results. But let me jump to the headline. We are reaffirming our consolidated 2021 earnings guidance of $2.50 to $2.64. We remain committed to delivering on our 5% to 7% growth target and our 60% to 70% dividend payout ratio. At Alliant Energy, we take pride in our long track record of delivering consistent growth for our investors. And what makes this even more meaningful is in how we have delivered that growth, by living our values, to care for others, and act for tomorrow. We continuously raise the bar when it comes to our environmental, social, and governance commitments. We're proud to be recognized for our efforts. We're a AA-rated company by MSCI, ranked in the top quartile for global utilities by Sustainalytics, and achieved Envision Platinum certification on major generation projects. With our customers in mind, we continue to accelerate our purpose-driven clean energy transition.

 



 We call it the clean energy blueprint and recently highlighted our progress toward our sustainability goals during Earth Week. We ended the year 2020 with 42% less carbon emissions than our 2005 levels, nearly 70% reduction in water compared to our 2005 levels, and nearly 70% of our coal generation is either retired or planned for retirement by 2024. We'll be sharing more of our progress and highlighting new initiatives with the release of our updated corporate responsibility report this summer. Equally important to our environmental efforts, are the commitments to our employees, customers, and the communities we serve. We know that when we embrace the diversity of our employees and continue to build upon the strong culture, we create a sense of belonging and inclusion, that leads to great things for our customers. I'm very proud of the recognition of our efforts in this space by organization such as the human rights campaign and to be included in Bloomberg's Gender-Equality Index. In 2020, we were named one of America's most responsible companies by Newsweek, ranking 12 on the list for our social responsibility efforts. Turning to our recent updates, this week we announced an intent to enter into a settlement agreement for our rate filing in Wisconsin. We continued our open and transparent practices into our rate review process and are very pleased to have reached the settlement in principle with several stakeholder organizations, including the Citizens Utility Board, the Wisconsin Industrial Energy Group, and the Sierra Club. The key terms with stakeholders continues to manage customer costs and enables our thoughtful transition to a clean energy future, adding certainty and flexibility for our business. Just prior to this development, we reached another successful milestone, announcing our plans to add 414 megawatts of solar in Wisconsin, rounding our previously announced plan to accelerate our clean energy transition by adding nearly 1,100 megawatts of solar in the Badger state. Upon completion of this planned expansion, Alliant Energy will own and operate the most solar energy in the state of Wisconsin. These investments are another part of our clean energy blueprint, developed through an extensive and transparent planning process and utilizing our industry-best project execution. In our communities, we are partnering with businesses and community leaders to develop hometown solar projects. These local projects benefit communities through lease payments, supplying clean energy to the local energy grid, empowering homes and businesses. Some of our newest projects include a one-megawatt community solar project located in Perry, Iowa; a customer-hosted project in Dodgeville, Wisconsin, located on the rooftop of IO County's new law enforcement center; and solar generation near our West Riverside Energy Center near Beloit, Wisconsin. Before I close, I'd like to recognize our amazing employees. They came together to serve customers during Winter Storm Uri. As a result of their efforts, coupled with smart investments we've made to ensure reliability, resiliency, and the proactive planning by our energy markets team, we not only weathered the storm, our teams continued providing safe, reliable, and affordable energy during this extreme weather event. And our customers will not see the significant increases experienced by others around the country. In summary, 2021 is off to a solid start for our company, and we look forward to building on that momentum throughout the year as we focus on continuing our role as a leader in advancing renewable energy, completing customer-focused investments on time and on budget, delivering solid returns for our investors and living our values as we fulfill our purpose of serving customers and building stronger communities. Thank you for your interest in Alliant Energy. I'll now turn the call over to Robert.Robert Durian -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone. Yesterday, we announced first-quarter 2021 GAAP earnings of $0.68 per share compared to $0.70 per share in 2020. Similar to last year, the first quarter's earnings are more than 25% of our 2021 earnings target and represent a strong start to the year. Our earnings were slightly lower on a year-over-year basis, largely due to the timing of tax expense impacts, which will reverse later this year. For the full year, we are reaffirming our earnings guidance of $2.50 per share to $2.64 per share, an increase at the midpoint of more than 6% over 2020 temperature-normalized earnings per share of $2.42. To assist you in modeling our quarterly earnings this year, I wanted to provide some additional context to one of the larger variances shown in our earnings release. As some may recall, in the first quarter of 2020, we recognized $0.06 of favorability due to the timing of income taxes, which arose from the large amount of wind generation placed in service in 2020. We had additional tax favorability in the third quarter of 2020 before a full reversal in the fourth quarter of last year. You can expect to see the inverse of that in 2021, with unfavorable variances related to the timing of income tax expense for the sum of the first three quarters, followed by a favorable reversal in the fourth quarter of this year. We continue to see improving economic conditions in our service territories, with more businesses returning to normal operations following the lifting of many of the COVID-19 mitigation restrictions and increasing levels of economic development activities in both states. Of note, our temperature-normalized retail electric sales in the first quarter of 2021 were better than expected and represented an approximate 1% increase over the first quarter of 2020, which was largely pre-pandemic for our service territories. We are also very encouraged by the fact that the number of our customers in arrears or on payment plans today is lower than it was before the pandemic began. This is a testament to the great work of our employees, connecting customers having difficulty making payments with available federal and state resources. I'm also very proud of donations by our company and our customers to the Hometown Care Energy Fund, which provides confidential financial support for Alliant Energy customers faced with financial challenges. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, it was necessary for us to accelerate our cost transformation efforts to reduce -- to offset reduced sales, while holding rates flat for our customers last year. Thanks to our employees' continued focus on cost reductions, we achieved another quarter of solid operating expense reductions in the first quarter of 2021. Over the longer term, we are targeting to reduce O&M by approximately 3% to 5% per year for the next several years off of 2019 levels. We will achieve these savings through efforts that fall under three pillars, all of which are enabled by our customer-focused capital investments. The first and most immediately impactful are investments in generation transformation. This includes our expansion of wind and solar energy and the sunsetting of coal generation in our portfolio. The second pillar involves investments in electric distribution, particularly in the areas of undergrounding and converting larger portions of our system to 25 kV, which will enable lower maintenance expense. The third and final pillar includes investments in technology across our company, which will enhance productivity and efficiency through automation, customer self-service, and telework. Slide 4 of our supplemental slides has been provided to assist you in modeling the effective tax rates for our two utilities and our consolidated group. We estimate a consolidated effective tax rate of negative 19% for 2021. The primary drivers of the lower tax rate are the additional tax credits from new wind projects placed into service and the return of excess deferred taxes from federal tax reform to our customers. The production tax credits and excess deferred tax benefits will flow back to customers resulting in lower electric margins. Thus, the decrease in the effective tax rate is largely earnings neutral. Turning to our financing plans. We continue to maintain strong balance sheets at our two utilities and the parent company with minimal financing needs in 2021. As a reminder, our financing plans for 2021 include up to $300 million of long-term debt to be issued by our Wisconsin utility and no material debt maturities this year. In addition, the only new common equity forecast to be issued this year is approximately $25 million through the shareholder direct plan. We've included our regulatory initiatives of note on Slide 5. Starting in our Wisconsin jurisdiction, as John mentioned earlier this week, we filed a notice of intent to settle with key intervening parties in Wisconsin and WPL's next electric and gas rate review filing. The agreement in principle resulted from collaboration and alignment with the settling parties on total revenue requirements for 2022 and 2023. The agreement would enable key financial terms impacting such revenue requirements, including maintaining a 10% return on equity, achieving an effective regulatory equity layer of 54%, and utilizing an innovative recovery mechanism for WPL's retiring Edgewater coal plant. WPL is working with the stakeholders to finalize the terms of the settlement, which will be subject to review and approval by the PSCW. We anticipate a decision from the PSCW on this filing later this year. More details on the terms of the agreement in principle can be found on Slide 6. Additionally in Wisconsin, we received verbal approval from the PSCW in April for our certificate of authority filing for 675 megawatts of new solar generation. This verbal approval is another example of our continued track record of constructive State Regulatory decisions, approving renewable projects that support our transition to cleaner sources of energy for our customers. In the discussion of this decision, all three commissioners were complementary of the resource planning process and stakeholder engagement that we conducted as part of our Wisconsin Clean Energy Blueprint. The commission commended our modeling efforts in this process and the consideration paid to affordability and stability of rates, reliability of service, and our path to sustainability for our customers. We'd expect a written decision in the coming weeks. We also filed our second certificate authority application for an additional 414 megawatts of Wisconsin Solar in March. We anticipate a decision from the PSCW on this filing in the first half of next year. Moving to Iowa. We expect to file for advanced remaking principles in the third quarter for a proposed approximately 400 megawatts of solar, included in our Iowa Clean Energy Blueprint. The advance remaking principles process in Iowa includes approval of the return on equity for the life of the asset, depreciation rates, and a cost cap for the project. We anticipate a decision from the Iowa Utilities Board on this filing by the middle of next year. We appreciate your continued interest in our company and look forward to connecting with many of you virtually over the coming months. At this time, I'll turn the call back over to the operator to facilitate the question-and-answer session. 