
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Match Group First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Bill Archer, Head of Investor Relations and Corporate Development. Please go ahead.Bill Archer -- Head of Investor Relations and Corporate Development

 



Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Today's call will be led by CEO, Shar Dubey; and our CFO and COO, Gary Swidler. They will make a few brief remarks, and then we'll open it up for questions.Before we start, I need to remind everyone that during this call, we may discuss our outlook and future performance. These forward-looking statements may be preceded by words such as we expect, we believe, we anticipate or similar statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and our actual results could differ materially from the views expressed today. Some of these risks have been set forth in our earnings release and our periodic reports filed with the SEC.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Shar.Sharmistha Dubey -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Bill. Good morning, and thank you for joining the call today. For the first time in well over a year, Gary and I are actually doing this call from the same location. We're fully vaccinated. We've gotten on planes, which speaks to the optimism we're feeling about the situation here in the U.S. Our Q1 results reflect that. The 23% year-over-year growth in revenue came through reacceleration of Tinder with 18% growth and non-Tinder brands, posting a growth rate of 30%. The highest those brands have achieved since our IPO in 2015.A big driver of this momentum is the U.S., where we have seen increases across all our brands as the quarter went on. The vaccination rates and control over the COVID cases these last few months have resulted in our users feeling more confident about their dating lives. However, I've also gotten a tough reminder that we're still not out of the woods with this pandemic.Just a couple months ago, we were feeling very good about the trends in India, which as you know has suffered last year. These last few weeks, my days have all started with grim news from India, where we have a team and I still personally have a lot of friends and family, including my parents. The dire situation in India and somewhat worsening conditions in countries like Brazil and even Japan that is going through its third emergency declaration is a reminder that we've not gotten past the pandemic in much of the world, and things could still turn on a dime. So, we are still operating with the degree of uncertainty.But back to the parts we actually have more control over. Tinder made progress in Q1 across users, subscribers and ARPU and the trends look good. But what's more exciting to me is the roadmap that Jim Lanzone, who's now been the CEO at Tinder since late summer last year, has laid out the journey to transform the Tinder experience from a swipe match message funnel to a more multi-dimensional and ritual one with more ways to self-express, discover, flirt and connect. And this in turn, we think will open up new opportunities for increased engagement and monetization through 2022 and beyond.

 



Hinge continues to gain traction in the English-speaking market that it is available in. In addition to the progress they've made on revenue recently, the focus for Hinge is on outcomes, with its tag line Designed to Be Deleted. They have a track record of innovation that supports their brand promise of getting people off their phones and out on great dates with features such as Photo Prompts, Most Compatible, Your Turn, We Met and most recently, they introduced Prompt packs into the video chat experience, which are being used in approximately 20% of video dates.Also this year, Hinge announced Hinge Labs, an in-house research team that is dedicated to helping daters be more successful. Research there is fueling what we believe will be an exciting second half of the year focusing on among other things, an expansion of its what works guidance program for users who need help getting out on great dates. Again, in line with their focus on outcomes for their users.Finally, the team has been making progress on the plans for the pending Hyperconnect acquisition and post-closing integration, including the various regulatory approvals needed. We still hope to be able to close by the end of Q2. And while the growing trend of isolation and loneliness was already a thing across many parts of the world, the pandemic has really escalated its impacts on mental health.Growing popularity of social discovery categories is a testament to the need for more human interaction, companionship, connections. And while our apps have traditionally focused on romantic connections, we do think we can lend our expertise in the area of making meaningful connections among people you don't know in this newer, evolving adjacent category. We think we can leverage our product jobs as well as our Western market experience, combined with Hyperconnect's video and AI technology and their APAC market experience and we have an opportunity to succeed in both solving a social need and expanding our business footprint.As we've said all year, we remain agile and ready to react to changing conditions. Sitting here today, there are many reasons for us to feel optimistic about our social lives and hence our business, although the situation in a few parts of the world gives us appropriate pause about the uncertainty that still exists. If nothing else, this past year has reinforced the urgency of our mission to work tirelessly on products that help people find meaningful connections, love and relationships around the world.And with that, I'm going to hand it over to Gary to talk more about the quarter.Gary Swidler -- Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Shar. It's great to be here in-person with you and the team in Dallas today. It's been a long time coming.Before I jump into my remarks, I just want to point out that we adjusted the format of our quarterly disclosure this quarter. We combined our earnings release and shareholder letter into one document to improve convenience for shareholders and make understanding the Company's results easier. I hope everyone likes the new format. And as always, we welcome any and all feedback. Additionally, we expect to make some further changes and enhancements to our disclosed financial metrics, once the Hyperconnect acquisition closes to better reflect the key metrics of the combined business. I'll provide more details later this year.With that all said, I'm pleased to report that we had a very strong Q1 on essentially all metrics. Total revenue growth continued to accelerate to 23% year-over-year in Q1, up from 19% year-over-year in Q4 2020. Acceleration occurred at both Tinder, which grew revenue 18%, and the non-Tinder brands, where direct revenue was up 30% year-over-year. All major non-Tinder brands contributed year-over-year direct revenue growth again in Q1. This was the fifth consecutive quarter of non-Tinder brands showing growth in aggregate. Pairs, PlentyOfFish on the strength of live streaming and our newer brands, Hinge, Chispa and BLK, all grew rapidly in the quarter.Our direct revenue was evenly split between North America, which grew 24% year-over-year and international which grew 21% year-over-year. Indirect revenue grew 27% year-over-year, marking a second consecutive strong quarter as the advertising market continued to improve.Average subscribers increased 1.2 million over the prior year to 11.1 million, representing 12% year-over-year growth, up 9% in North America and 15% internationally. Tinder's average subscribers were up just under 900,000 year-over-year or 15%, and came in just shy of 7 million in total. Non-Tinder brands average subscribers were up over 300,000 year-over-year, or 8% for the second consecutive quarter.Total Company ARPU is up 9% year-over-year to $0.64, up 13% in North America and 7% internationally. We did get about $0.02 or 3 points of growth in the quarter from foreign exchange impacts. Tinder ARPU was up 4% year-over-year, driven by Platinum subscribers and additional a la carte sales.Non-Tinder brand's 18% year-over-year ARPU growth was remarkable, improving upon the 16% year-over-year growth we saw last quarter. All major brands increased ARPU year-over-year in Q1. The launch of several a la carte features and price optimization at Hinge as well as the PlentyOfFish live streaming revenue were major contributors to the ARPU improvement again in the quarter.As always, we continue to focus on overall revenue growth, not specifically on subscriber or ARPU growth. In Q1, we did achieve some ARPU growth at the expense of more robust subscriber growth at some of our brands, in particular Hinge and OkCupid.Operating income grew 38% and EBITDA grew 32% year-over-year in Q1. EBITDA margins were 34%, 2 points higher than in Q1 2020. Overall expenses dropped 3 points as a percentage of revenue to 72% in Q1 '21 from 75% in Q1 '20. Cost of revenue grew 25% year-over-year, impacted by higher IAP fees, web hosting costs and fees related to live-streaming video at PlentyOfFish.Sales and marketing spend was up $20 million or 16% year-over-year, and represented 22% of total revenue in Q1, slightly lower than typical levels. Product development costs grew 27% year-over-year, as we increase headcount at several brands, notably Tinder and Hinge.G&A expense rose 11% year-over-year, and comprised only 13% of revenue versus 15% in the prior period. G&A in Q1 also included $4 million of costs related to the acquisition of Hyperconnect.Our gross and net leverage declined to 4.1 times and 3.2 times respectively, down steadily from 4.8 times and 4.6 times at the time of our separation from IAC. We're pleased to see net leverage already well below 4 times. We ended the quarter with $846 million of cash on hand.For Q2, we expect total revenue of $680 million to $690 million, which would represent 22% to 24% year-over-year growth. In Q2, we expect above 20% year-over-year revenue growth at both the Tinder and non-Tinder brands in aggregate. We expect EBITDA of $255 million to $260 million in Q2. We expect to spend an additional $40 million year-over-year in sales and marketing in Q2, compared to the prior year period. Recall that spend levels were lower in Q2 2020, as the pandemic took hold, and we adjusted spending across a number of categories, most notably sales and marketing. Litigation costs were also lower in Q2 2020, as actions were delayed on account of the pandemic.Note that our outlook for Q2 '21 includes a few million dollars of legal and other expenses related to the Hyperconnect acquisition, which we expect to close in the quarter. Our outlook does not yet reflect any revenue or other contribution from Hyperconnect itself.We're delighted by the broad-based strength we saw in Q1 and our improving business momentum. To be sure, risks remain and some caution and outlook is still warranted. The world is not recovering at an even pace with slower vaccine roll-outs and higher case counts in many markets. Despite this, we're increasingly confident that we'll be able to deliver the high-end of our previously communicated revenue and EBITDA ranges for 2021.With that, I'll ask the operator to open the line for questions.