  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the American Tower's second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Igor Khislavsky, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Igor Khislavsky Good morning, and thank you for joining American Tower's second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. We've posted a presentation, which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the investor relations tab of our website, www.americantower.com. On this morning's call, Tom Bartlett, our president and CEO, will provide a strategic update on our international business with a focus on our newly expanded European portfolio. And then, Rod Smith, our executive vice president, CFO, and treasurer, will discuss our Q2 2021 results and revised full-year outlook. After these comments, we will open up the call for your questions. Before we begin, I'll remind you that our comments will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Examples of these statements include our expectations regarding future growth, including our 2021 outlook, capital allocation and future operating performance; our expectations regarding the impacts of COVID-19; our expectations regarding the closing of the remaining Telxius sites; expectations regarding the closing of our signed agreements with CDPQ and Allianz; and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical fact. You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's earnings press release, those set forth in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, and in other filings we make with the SEC. We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Tom. Tom Bartlett -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Igor. Good morning, everyone. I hope that you are all healthy and well. As is typical on our second-quarter calls, my remarks today will center on our international business, which now spans more than 171,000 communication sites and accounted for 37% of our property segment gross margin in the second quarter. Given our recent Telxius transaction, I'll focus much of my commentary on our European portfolio, but I do want to first cover some of the key tenets that drive our global strategy and touch on a few important metrics for our international business as a whole. Since entering Brazil and Mexico more than two decades ago, to provide geographic diversification to our foundational U.S. assets, we've oriented our international growth around partnering with large multinational wireless carriers in select markets with strong property rights, solid rules of law and vibrant wireless industries. Since Day 1, our international expansion mandate has been clear: acquire, construct, and market franchise real estate assets to drive strong organic growth, long-term margin expansion and compelling total returns and do so with an emphasis on building leading market positions in the largest democracies around the world in various stages of wireless technology development, all while driving enhanced connectivity for billions of people and being a good corporate citizen. Bottom line, our goal was to replicate the model we've built in the United States, to increase the slope of the growth curve and extend it. As a result of our adherence to these core principles and the tremendous contributions from our global leadership teams and employees, we have been able to drive solid results across our international business over the last decade. Markets outside the United States have made meaningful contributions to our long track record of generating strong organic growth, while delivering double-digit annual consolidated AFFO per-share growth and attractive returns on invested capital. In fact, as of the end of the second quarter, international sites that we've owned and operated since before 2010 were generating U.S. dollar NOI yields of 30%, with our oldest vintage of sites in Latin America driving NOI yields closer to 40%. And international sites we've built and acquired since 2010, excluding the Telxius assets that we just closed, are generating an average U.S. dollar NOI yield of 10%, with what we believe to be substantial future upside potential. Further, on sites, we've constructed ourselves internationally across all vintages, the NOI yield, as of the end of the second quarter was 25%, demonstrating the tremendous return potential of our new build program. Finally, it's important to note that just as we've done in the past, we expect to focus on constructing sites for high-quality, primarily investment-grade tenants as we drive toward our goal of 40,000 to 50,000 new builds worldwide over the next five years. We're focused not only on generating strong growth and returns internationally, but also, in doing so in a sustainable way. This is reflected in our accelerating power-related investments in lithium ion battery storage, solar and other clean energy solutions as we seek to reduce our global carbon footprint and lead the overall telecom industry to a greener, more sustainable future. Moreover, we believe that shared use of renewable energy, combined with storage, has the potential to reduce operating costs over time, which can benefit the entire telecom ecosystem as demand for mobile data usage continues to rise. In addition, we are working to make a positive difference in our markets through programs like our digital communities initiative, which seeks to expand access to education and technology to underserved populations by leveraging power and connectivity at our tower sites. To date, this program has enabled well over 100,000 students across six markets to gain critical access to the Internet, while developing digital literacy skills and has recently garnered recognition from the UN World Summit on Information Society. Looking forward, by working with partners, the World Economic Forum and other stakeholders, we expect to meaningfully expand the reach of our digital communities efforts as part of our overall commitment to making a positive difference in our served markets, particularly given the critical need for pervasive mobile broadband connectivity. This criticality for broadband connectivity was amplified by the COVID-19 pandemic and fit squarely within our belief that the network technology evolution we've seen in the United States will be replicated internationally. And that as owners and operators of mission-critical communications real estate, our sites will be at the forefront. As mobile data usage continues to grow rapidly and as 2G and 3G networks outside of the United States are upgraded to 4G and 5G, we expect network densification and augmentation to take center stage resulting in long-term sustainable, predictable growth for us. Importantly, the international tower model, just like the U.S. business, is predicated on optimizing operating leverage, signing value-additive, strategic long-term contracts and providing high levels of service to our customers, while carefully and selectively deploying capital to high-quality, accretive growth investments. With mobile network operators across our international markets spending upwards of $35 billion in wireless capex annually, and the need for communications infrastructure only expanding, we believe we position ourselves for long-term success. One critical element of our international strategy is a balanced approach to market selection. We've always sought to not only diversify the business from the perspective of the United States versus international, but also, to drive diversification within our international operations themselves. As a result, we operate in a mix of developed and developing markets and as I mentioned earlier, have exposure to multiple concurrent technology cycles throughout our operations. We've been quite purposeful in ensuring that we are not too overweight in any one market or region, and that is reflected in our portfolio today. Our recent Telxius transaction is a clear reflection of this long-held strategy. Not only were we able to secure what we believe to be premier assets centered in two highly attractive European countries, but the deal also enabled us to further balance our emerging market presence with communication sites in more mature markets. In fact, on a total company run-rate basis, around 60% of our property revenue is now derived from developed technology-advanced markets. We expect the incremental diversification we have gained through the Telxius deal to yield benefits over the long term on many fronts, including with deeper access to the attractive European capital market, both public and private, the addition of incremental euro-denominated revenues and, of course, a much stronger competitive position on the continent itself. So with that, I would like to now take a deeper dive into why we're so excited about our European business and particularly our newly scaled presence in Germany and Spain. We've always said that we view the concept of Europe being a singular tower market as a misnomer, and that remains true today. Europe is a collection of vastly different markets with highly variable characteristics on the regulatory wireless market structure and historical network development sides, among others. And we've seen this reflected in many portfolios we've evaluated over the years that we ultimately did not acquire. To that point, our Telxius transaction is less an indication of a sea change across Europe as a whole and much more a reflection of the assets themselves being superior in our view. The wireless market structure and dynamics, regulatory regimes and carrier capex trends in Germany and Spain are favorable, and Telefonica is a high-quality anchor tenant. We also perform significant due diligence on the sites and accompanying contracts, both on the customer side and on the landlord side, and view the outcome of that diligence as a positive differentiator as compared to some of the other portfolios we've evaluated. As a result, we're confident that we can drive attractive economics across the portfolio, including high margin flow-through from colocation and amendment growth, complemented by a new build program that we expect will further accelerate over the next few years. This confidence is underpinned by strong underlying wireless market trends in both countries. Mobile data usage from 2019 through '24, for example, is projected to grow at a CAGR of more than 25% in Germany and Spain, similar to the United States. Meanwhile, ARPUs have been relatively steady over an extended period of time. The mobile network operators are solidly profitable and 5G device penetration, like in the United States, is still in its infancy. Wireless market structure is also favorable, with significant carrier consolidation having already occurred, leading three major incoming carriers in Germany and four in Spain. Consequently, we believe the downside risk related to further consolidation in these markets is modest for us. Critically, carriers in both Germany and Spain possess significant spectrum assets across multiple bands. For instance, the three incumbents in Germany, along with One and One, all have at least 50 megahertz in the 3.5 to 3.7 gigahertz range, which is now starting to be deployed for 5G rollouts. Meanwhile, in Spain, all four major carriers have at least 80 megahertz in the same globally harmonized mid-band range, along with significant spectrum assets from 800 megahertz to 2.1 gigahertz and 700 megahertz spectrum coming to auction shortly. Further, between the two markets, mobile wireless carriers are spending more than $6 billion in wireless capex annually, with a new entrant in Germany in accelerating 5G deployments potentially leading to enhanced capex deployment in the future. Finally, over the last several years, unlike in many other European markets, communication site counts have been increasing, and we believe that substantial further densification efforts will be necessary to augment existing 4G deployments and upcoming 5G rollouts. Just like in the United States, as higher band spectrum is deployed for 5G, networks will need to become denser to provide a true 5G experience. With our expanded footprint focused in the urban areas where these deployments are likely to be concentrated, we are well-positioned to drive strong growth over a number of years. In fact, as we laid out when we announced the transaction, we are confident in being able to deliver organic tenant billings growth at least in the mid-single digits on the European Telxius sites over the next several years and likely beyond. This growth rate trajectory would be roughly two times what our legacy European business is generating today. On the surface, that may seem like a disconnect, but peeling back the onion a bit reveals that the math is quite straightforward. In large part, the difference is driven by churn. On our legacy sites, we are working through the impacts of some carrier consolidation. And as a result, our churn rates over the past few years have been in the 2.5% to 3% range. On the Telxius side, on the other hand, we expect minimal cancellations for the foreseeable future, given most of the existing tenancies represented by Telefonica, with an average noncancelable lease term of between seven and eight years. Simply put, even without assuming any inflection in demand from 5G or new entrants, that churn differential alone should put us solidly in the mid-single digits for organic tenant billings growth on the Telxius sites. And to the extent that there is an uptick in activity from 5G and the other dynamics I referenced earlier, we believe that we have the potential to outperform that range over time. One of the key elements that we expect to backstop this strong growth is the fundamental structure of both our tenant leases of our rooftop and ground leases. This has been a much debated topic across the region, and we've seen a variety of different contract terms in various portfolios that we've evaluated over the years. In many cases, those terms, in our view, were such that future growth and profitability would have been significantly constrained. This is not the case on the Telxius assets, which was a critical element of why they were so attractive to us. There are revenue shares in place on certain sites, and there are some capacity constraints with respect to a portion of the rooftop assets. But overall, we expect to drive conversion rates on organic growth that will be nearly comparable to what we've seen in the United States, which is extremely important for us. One additional element of our European business that I want to address is our plans for future expansion. As it is, we believe that we now have the scale we need to be successful in both Germany and Spain. With more than 26,000 sites between the two markets, pro forma for the additional German rooftops we expect to close over the next week or so, we are solidly established as a significant player in European communications real estate. Further, we expect to leverage our new build program to drive additional scale over time in the region, including 2,400 or so contracted BTS sites in Germany that we anticipate building over the next three to five years. As 4G and 5G-driven densification accelerates, the need for new sites in select markets should continue to grow. On the M&A front, we expect to continue to use our long-standing proven capital deployment methodology to evaluate potential transactions in the future. We have been patient, deliberate and selective in Europe to this point, and that will continue going forward. Each portfolio will be examined on its own merits, with long-term growth potential, AFFO per-share accretion and long-term return on invested capital continuing to guide our M&A strategy. With CDPQ and Allianz joining PGGM as our strategic partners in the region, we believe that we are in a better position than ever to prudently expand the business through M&A, should the right opportunities present themselves. And if not, we will do what we have always done, deploy capital elsewhere on a global basis to drive the best possible risk-adjusted return across the business. We also believe that our broader European footprint can further enhance the competitive advantage that we derive from our worldwide shared infrastructure platform. Digital transformation on a global scale is being driven by cloud computing and ubiquitous connectivity, and we believe that our existing and future distributed real estate can play a pivotal role in providing mission-critical applications with access to the cloud on-ramps required to support them. One example of this is on-the-edge compute side, where a significantly expanded presence in Europe rounds out our position as a global provider of edge compute solutions to support the transition to cloud-native telecom functions. Similar to the United States, we are still years away from deploying meaningful capital and generating significant revenue from edge compute in Germany, Spain and France. But the same long-term trends pointing to a sizable market opportunity in the U.S. also exists in these markets. In addition, we are continuing to explore smart city connectivity, private and shared indoor networks and other innovative next-generation solutions based on WiFi, O-RAN and 5G. In closing, we continue to believe that our comprehensive existing global portfolio and ability to be flexible, strategic and selective with respect to future international growth investments, positions us well for a prolonged period of solid, sustainable growth. With our newly expanded presence in the continent, Europe is going to be a significantly more important component of this path forward. And we're also excited about adding high-quality strategic partners in the region to potentially further enhance our growth profile. Meanwhile, the rest of our international business, spread across attractive markets in various stages of wireless technology deployment continues to provide meaningful opportunities for both organic and inorganic growth. Taken together with our foundational U.S. asset base, we believe this diverse international portfolio will not only help us drive compelling returns over the long term, but will also enable us to bring critical mobile broadband connectivity to billions of people, advancing our vision of making wireless communications possible everywhere. With that, let me hand it over to Rod to go through the details of our results and the updated outlook. Rod?Rod Smith -- Executive Vice President, CFO, and Treasurer Thanks, Tom. And thank you, everyone, for joining today's call. I hope you and your families are well. As you saw in our press release, we had a strong second quarter, driven by solid global demand for our communication sites as carriers continued to deploy meaningful capital to augment and extend their networks. We expect carriers across our global portfolio to spend upwards of $70 billion in capex for the full year, which is expected to support attractive growth for our global business. Before getting into the details of our second-quarter results and raised full-year outlook, I want to touch on a few key achievements for the quarter. First, we closed on approximately 27,000 sites across Europe and Latin America as part of our Telxius acquisition, and are on track to add the remaining 4,000 or so German rooftop sites in early August. Overall, including the Telxius deal, other small-scale M&A and our new build program, we expanded our global site count by nearly 15% in the quarter. Second, we financed the Telxius transaction in what we believe to be an optimal way, including agreements to add CDPQ and Allianz as strategic minority partners in Europe. We also raised approximately $2.4 billion in the euro debt markets at highly attractive rates and issued more than $2 billion in common equity. We are well-positioned to continue to deploy growth capital, while at the same time effectively managing our leverage and maintaining our strong investment-grade balance sheet. Finally, as expected, demand for both existing and new assets across our global footprint accelerated in the quarter, with sequentially higher organic growth and continued strong new build activity. In addition, we booked a record quarter in our U.S. services segment, reflecting an attractive demand environment that, combined with our existing comprehensive MLAs, is expected to drive higher levels of gross new business in our property segment in the coming quarters. With that, please turn to Slide 6, and I'll review our Q2 property revenue and organic tenant billings growth. As you can see, our consolidated property revenue of $2.2 billion grew by approximately 18% year over year or nearly 16% on an FX-neutral basis. This included U.S. property revenue growth of 13% and international property revenue growth of 24% or 19% on a constant-currency basis. These growth rates reflect the advantages of our global diversification and our ability to benefit from multiple concurrent deployments of network technology around the globe. Growth was also favorably impacted by one month of contributions from the Telxius sites, U.S. M&A transactions that closed late in 2020, higher levels of pass-through and straight-line revenue and some nonrecurring elements and revenue reversals. Moving to the right side of the slide, organic growth was again a significant contributor to our overall revenue growth. On a consolidated basis, organic tenant billings growth was 4.8%, reflecting a sequential acceleration of around 70 basis points. This included a step-up in our U.S. and Canada growth from 3.6% last quarter to 4.4% in Q2, driven primarily by the flow-through of activity under our comprehensive MLAs. We saw a nearly 20% sequential acceleration in the contribution of colocations and amendment activity to organic tenant billings growth. Escalations were over 3% and churn was 1.9%. 5G activity in the marketplace continues to advance, and all of the major U.S. carriers were active in their deployments during the quarter. Outside of the U.S. and Canada, we drove organic tenant billings growth of 5.3%, up from 5% last quarter. Latin America led the way with organic tenant billings growth of 8.4%, driven by solid new business commencements in higher escalators, primarily in Brazil. Organic tenant billings growth across our African markets was 8.2%, including 11% growth in Nigeria where we continue to benefit from an MOA signed last year with a major customer. We also had a solid quarter in Europe, with organic tenant billings growth rising more than 100 basis points sequentially to 4.4%. Notably, our legacy German business drove gross organic growth of more than 8%, driven by accelerating 5G deployments and continuing investments in 4G. Meanwhile, in India, we saw an organic tenant billings decline of 1.7%, essentially flat to the first quarter. This included fairly healthy gross new business activity, but also continued elevated levels of churn. Turning to Slide 7. Our Q2 adjusted EBITDA grew nearly 22% or around 20% on an FX-neutral basis to $1.5 billion. Adjusted EBITDA margin was 64.2%, up 90 basis points over the prior year, driven by continued organic growth, prudent cost controls throughout the business and benefits from higher levels of straight-line revenues. Cash, SG&A as a percent of total property revenue was around 7.7%. Moving to the right side of the slide, consolidated AFFO growth was nearly 19%, with per-share growth of about 17%. Continued solid organic trends, contributions from our newly acquired and constructed assets and cost controls throughout the business, along with cost efficient balance sheet management and about $20 million in FX favorability, were the main drivers of this growth. On an FX-neutral basis, consolidated AFFO growth would have been over 16%, and consolidated AFFO per-share growth would have been around 15%. AFFO attributable to AMT common stockholders per share was $2.39, reflecting a year-over-year growth rate of right around 19%. Let's now turn to our raised outlook for the full year. I'll start by reviewing a few of the key updated assumptions. First, we have layered in the impacts of the more than 27,000 Telxius sites we have closed to date, as well as the remaining 4,000 Telxius rooftop sites in Germany that we expect to purchase in the first week of August. Second, we have assumed that our agreements with CDPQ and Allianz close in mid-Q3. We expect to receive over $3 billion in total proceeds from these transactions. And after the closing, CDPQ will own 30% of ATC Europe, with Allianz owning 18%. This is higher than the initial 10% that we discussed as Allianz has exercised its option to increase its stake in the business. Additionally, PGGM has converted its prior holdings in ATC Europe to minority stakes in our local German and Spanish operating companies. Given this more meaningful minority interest component, we have added net income attributable to AMT common stockholders and AFFO attributable to AMT common stockholders as outlook metrics and would expect to feature both in our financial reporting going forward. Finally, as a result of recent favorable FX trends in many of our markets, our current outlook reflects positive FX impacts of $41 million for property revenue, $26 million for adjusted EBITDA and $20 million for consolidated AFFO as compared to our prior expectations. With that, let's move to the details of our increased full-year expectations. As you can see on Slide 8, we are now projecting consolidated year-over-year property revenue growth of nearly 14% at the midpoint, up 6% versus our prior outlook. The increase includes approximately $383 million in total revenue from Telxius, including $141 million in pass-through. Further, we now expect about $58 million in additional pass-through revenue throughout the rest of the business, mostly due to higher fuel prices in India, as well as $19 million or so in higher global straight-line revenue. Moving to Slide 9. You'll see that as part of our property revenue outlook increase, we are raising our organic tenant billings growth projections on a consolidated basis to around 4%, up from between 3% and 4% previously as a result of higher growth expectations internationally. In the U.S., we are maintaining our projections for approximately 3% organic tenant billings growth, including the impacts of Sprint churn in Q4. We continue to expect 5G deployments to drive accelerating gross new business activity and believe we have a long runway of solid growth ahead of us as carriers invest in network densification over a multiyear period. In Latin America, we're raising our organic tenant billings growth expectations to over 7% for the year, as customers continue to increase their mobile data usage and carriers respond with incremental network investments despite some continued challenges associated with COVID-19. As compared to our prior outlook, we now expect slightly lower churn across the region, although we do still expect churn to trend higher in the back half of the year as some carrier consolidation occurs in markets like Mexico. We continue to drive value additive contractual arrangements in the region and recently signed a significant colocation deal with a major customer in Colombia, which we expect to inflect growth higher in that market in the coming quarters. Meanwhile, in Africa, we are reaffirming our expectations of organic tenant billings growth in excess of 8% as we continue to see encouraging leasing trends in the region. As I alluded to earlier, growth rates in Nigeria are especially strong, where we are continuing to benefit from an MLA signed last year with a major customer. This, along with solid trends in other African markets, are expected to drive an acceleration in regional organic tenant billings growth to above 9% in the second half of the year. Moving on to Europe. We now expect organic tenant billings growth of over 5% for the full year, up around 150 basis points versus our prior outlook. This is being driven primarily by two factors. First, we expect higher levels of gross new business in our legacy Europe business, where we're continuing to see strong 5G-driven activity, particularly in Germany. Organic tenant billings growth for our legacy European assets is now expected to come in at above 4%, up more than 50 basis points as compared to our prior expectations. And second, the colocation and amendment growth that we expect to see in the second half of the year on the Telxius assets, which is included in our organic tenant billings growth metric, is driving another 100 basis points or so of upside. We view this expected activity as reinforcing our long-term expectations for compelling growth on the Telxius assets. Finally, in India, we continue to expect roughly flat organic tenant billings for the year. We are seeing encouraging levels of gross activity in the market but also continued elevated levels of churn. And while we remain optimistic that the market will return to solid growth over the long term, we're not expecting a significant inflection point in growth in 2021, which is consistent with our prior outlook. Moving to Slide 10. We are raising our adjusted EBITDA outlook and now expect year-over-year growth of nearly 15%, including a $183 million contribution from the Telxius assets, roughly $26 million in positive translational FX impacts as compared to our prior outlook and about $20 million in higher net straight line. In addition, we now expect $25 million in incremental expected services gross margin as services activity in the U.S. continues to outstrip our expectations. For the year, we expect to book roughly $105 million in services operating profit from total services revenue of $220 million. These positive items are being partially offset by roughly $30 million in incremental bad debt assumed for the full year, the majority of which is in India. Overall collections trends in the market remain solid, but we are taking a slightly more conservative approach for the back half of the year within our projections. The remaining bad debt is focused in Mexico, where Altan has recently filed for the equivalent of Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Given its government backing and recent progress within the business, we remain optimistic on the prospects of collecting billings with Altan in full. But because we expect the collections to be slow, we have made the bad debt entries for now, consistent with our historical approach in similar instances. Turning to Slide 11. We are also raising our expectations for full-year consolidated AFFO and now expect year-over-year growth of nearly 14%, with an implied outlook midpoint of $9.50 per share. The flow-through of incremental cash adjusted EBITDA, as well as around $20 million in FX tailwinds are being offset by approximately $15 million, $31 million and $25 million in incremental maintenance capex, cash taxes and net cash interest expense, respectively, primarily driven by the Telxius transaction. On a per-share basis, we now expect growth of right around 12% for the year. Finally, AFFO attributable to ATC common stockholders per share is expected to grow by nearly 10% versus 2020. This takes into account the expected closing of our transactions with CDPQ and Allianz in mid-Q3 and the corresponding minority interest impacts. The growth rates for the attributable metric is about 2% lower than our projected consolidated AFFO per-share growth, primarily due to the fact that the onetime cash interest expense item associated with our prior African joint venture in 2020 did not apply to the AFFO attributable to ATC common stockholders. Notably, across both of these metrics, we are well-positioned to meet our target of driving double-digit growth for 2021. Moving on to Slide 12. Let's review our updated capital deployment expectations for 2021, which now contemplates the Telxius transaction and reflect our consistent focus on driving strong sustainable growth in AFFO per share. First, we continue to expect to dedicate approximately $2.3 billion toward our dividend in 2021, implying a year-over-year growth rate of around 15%, subject to board approval. With regards to capex, we are raising our overall projections by $125 million at the midpoint This includes around $65 million in start-up capex attributable to the Telxius sites, as well as $65 million in additional deployment capex as part of our revised expectations of constructing 7,000 sites this year, up from our previous outlook of 6,500. We continue to drive highly attractive returns through our program. And including our revised 2021 expectations, we have added around 24,000 new sites since 2016. Notably, our average Day 1 NOI yields on build so far this year have been 11%. We are also adding $15 million in maintenance capex as we are accelerating a few maintenance projects over the rest of the year. This is being partially offset by about $20 million in lower anticipated land capex. On the acquisition front, we have deployed just under $9 billion so far this year, primarily on the Telxius transaction, and expect to spend another $600 million in early August to purchase the remaining 4,000 Telxius rooftop sites located in Germany. Of our nearly $14 billion in expected capital deployments for the year, over 80% is composed of discretionary capex in M&A. On the debt side of the equation, we ended the second quarter with net leverage of 5.7 times and expect that metric to trend down into the mid-five times range after closing the CDPQ and Allianz stake sales. We remain firmly committed to our investment grade rating and continue to expect that solid long-term adjusted EBITDA growth will allow us to naturally delever to the upper end of our three to five times range over a multiyear period. Over the next few quarters, we expect to be opportunistic in evaluating the potential benefits of terming out a portion of our floating rate debt into long-term fixed-rate instruments as we continually work to optimize our balance sheet. Looking back over the last decade, we have utilized this strategy to essentially reduce our weighted average cost of debt by half to 2.4% as of Q2. Turning to Slide 13. I want to take a few minutes to highlight several elements of our disciplined capital deployment strategy, honing in on two international regions where we have been quite active recently, Europe and Africa. Since the end of 2019, our most transformational international investments have been in Africa, through our acquisition of Eaton Towers, and most recently in Europe through the Telxius deal. As the chart to the left shows, organic colocations and amendment contributions in both regions have been accelerating. More importantly, we expect gross colocation and amendment activity to remain at elevated levels over a multiyear period, positioning us well to drive strong growth and attractive returns across our recently acquired assets in both regions. In addition to acquiring high-quality strategic site portfolios, we have also been ramping up our new build programs across both regions, as you can see in the middle chart on the slide. In fact, we've gone from constructing in average of less than 100 sites annually back in the early 2010 to a forecast of around 1,600 sites in 2021, primarily in Africa. Importantly, the return characteristics of these builds have remained extremely attractive, with average Day 1 NOI yields of approximately 10% expected this year. As you can also see, yields have risen sharply on older vintages of new build sites as a result of the strong lease-up trends I just mentioned, and we expect to continue to drive meaningful colocation and amendment revenue on our new build sites in the future. Further, we continue to focus on building and leasing sites to high-quality, large investment-grade tenants who we believe will drive the bulk of the network investments in these regions for the foreseeable future. We anticipate the demand for new builds across Africa and also in Europe, where we have inherited a robust pipeline with Telefonica as part of the Telxius acquisition, to remain strong as carriers address their coverage and capacity needs to meet 4G and 5G demand. We are also focused on growing our business sustainably, while driving industry leadership and innovation. A perfect example of this is what we've been doing in Africa with energy efficiency and renewable energy, where, by the end of 2021, we will have invested upwards of $250 million on lithium-ion batteries, solar power solutions and other energy-efficient technology. While we are still fairly early in the overall progression of these investments, the initial results have been compelling, with average diesel consumption per site declining by around 35%, coupled with improved battery and generator efficiency and elevated uptime levels that we believe are best-in-class. Through these initiatives, not only are we earning an attractive return on investment, but we are also helping to build and enhance a sustainable global digital ecosystem. This approach to capital deployment in Africa and Europe is indicative of our overall global investment philosophy. We continue to look for compelling opportunities to deploy capital in responsible, sustainable ways where we can generate attractive, long-term returns and solid growth while partnering with large multinational mobile network operators as they bring enhanced connectivity to their customers. And we believe that the global diversification that we've built into the business will benefit us for years to come. Finally, on Slide 14 and in summary, Q2 was another quarter of solid organic growth, margin expansion, meaningful new build activity and consistent dividend growth. This was achieved while closing on and beginning to integrate the vast majority of our Telxius acquisition, issuing over $2 billion in euro-denominated debt at record low rates, completing a successful common equity issuance and partnering with two world-class strategic investors in CDPQ and Allianz. For all of this, I would like to offer a huge thank you to our nearly 6,000 global employees, including those who have recently joined us from Telxius. Their hard work, unwavering dedication and numerous talents have positioned us extremely well to continue driving compelling total returns for our stockholders. We look forward to finishing 2021 strong and are more excited than ever about our long-term growth trajectory based on the continuing global rise in mobile data demand and our durable competitive advantage throughout our served markets. With that, I'll turn the call back over to the operator for Q&A. 