  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the Activision Blizzard second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions]. Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Hickey, senior vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Chris Hickey -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today for Activision Blizzard's second-quarter 2021 conference call. With us are Bobby Kotick, CEO; Daniel Alegre, president and COO; and Armin Zerza, CFO. And for Q&A, Rob Kostich, president of Activision; Jen Oneal, co-lead at Blizzard; Mike Ybarra, co-lead at Blizzard; and Allen Adham, executive producer of Blizzard Incubation, will also join us. Humam Sakhnini, president of King, sends his apology. He is unable to join due to a family medical matter, who looks forward to connecting with investors next quarter. I would like to remind everyone during this call, we will be making statements that are not historical facts. The forward-looking statements in this presentation are based on information available to the company as of the date of this presentation. And while we believe them to be true, they ultimately may prove to be incorrect.A number of factors could cause the company's actual future results and other future circumstances to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. These include the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the risk factors discussed in our SEC filings, including our 2020 annual report on Form 10-K and those on the slide that is showing. The company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after today, August 3, 2021. We will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures during this call. We provide non-GAAP financial measures, which excludes the impact of expenses related to stock-based compensation, the amortization of intangible assets and expenses related to acquisitions, including legal fees, costs, expenses and accruals; expenses related to debt financings and refinancings; restructuring and related charges; the associated tax benefits of these excluded items; and significant discrete tax-related items, including amounts related to changes in tax laws, amounts related to the potential or final resolution of tax positions and other unusual or unique tax-related items and activities. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for or superior to our GAAP results. We encourage investors to consider all measures before making an investment decision. Please refer to our earnings release, which is posted on www.activisionblizzard.com for a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation and further explanation with respect to our non-GAAP measures. There's also an earnings presentation, which you can access through the webcast and which will be posted to the website following the call. And now I'd like to introduce our CEO, Bobby Kotick. Bobby Kotick -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Chris, and thank you all for joining us today. I want to start by making it clear to everyone that there is no place at our company where discrimination, harassment or unequal treatment of any kind will be tolerated, nowhere. We so appreciate the current and former employees who have come forward in past and recent days with courage, and I want to reiterate the commitments we have made to you. Our work environment, everywhere we operate, will not permit discrimination, harassment or unequal treatment. We will be the company that sets the example for this in our industry. While we've taken many steps toward this objective already, today, we are taking even more. Jennifer Oneal and Mike Ybarra have been named the new co-leads to Blizzard. Jen has been with the company for 18 years. She's the former Head of our studio Vicarious Visions and most recently had production and development oversight for our Diablo and Overwatch franchises. Mike has been in our industry for over 20 years, including in leadership roles within Microsoft Xbox division and at Blizzard as General Manager of BattleNet. I'm also pleased to have Allen Adham here today. As most of you know, Allen is one of the founders of Blizzard. After a 12-year hiatus, Allen returned to Blizzard to lead our new product and new IP incubation efforts. Each of these individuals brings vast industry experience and tremendous integrity to their roles. They are the very best examples of leadership with character and accountability. I'm confident this team will ensure that Blizzard provides the welcoming, comfortable and safe workplace that is essential to foster creativity and inspiration. In addition, we'll continue to investigate each and every claim and complaint that we receive. When we learn of shortcomings, we will take decisive action and to strengthen our capabilities in this area, we'll be adding additional staff and resources. People will be held accountable for their actions. That commitment means that we will not just terminate employees where appropriate, but we'll also terminate any manager or leader found to have impeded the integrity of our processes for evaluating claims and imposing appropriate consequences. Because our work cannot be successful without diverse voices, views and talent, we made a commitment to consider diverse slates of candidates for all open positions, and we'll continue to add resources to ensure this occurs throughout the company. Over the past several years, we've made significant changes to address company culture, reflect more diversity within our leadership teams and create environments conducive to reporting any type of misconduct. We've amplified internal programs that encourage employees to report violation. We've reinforced channels for employees to voice concerns and confidential and safe ways without any fear of retaliation. We're directing additional resources to our compliance and employee relations teams dedicated to investigating complaints. We pride ourselves on paying our employees competitively and fairly for equal or substantially similar work. We regularly review our compensation to ensure that we remain equitable in our approach. We take a variety of proactive steps to ensure that pay is driven by nondiscriminatory factors such as performance, role and expertise. And we conduct extensive antidiscrimination trainings, including for all employees involved in the compensation process. Our workplace initiatives are crucial to our continued success and our leadership in this effort is my priority. Our workplace safety also remains our priority, and as we consider our return to work initiatives, we remain focused on providing the very best healthcare for our employees and their families. You have my unwavering commitment that we will continue to focus on serving our players and delivering the sustainable growth that you've come to expect. And we will take all necessary actions to foster a culture that is supportive and welcoming for all of our employees. And we expect to be the very best example for other companies to emulate. Daniel will now review the highlights of our operations for the past quarter with you.Daniel Alegre -- President and Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Bobby. I'd like to underscore the points that Bobby made regarding the company's commitment to ensuring the very best work environment. The leadership team and I will do our utmost to make sure that we're always improving and building the kind of inclusive workplace that is essential to enable creativity and professional growth for all employees. There will be no tolerance at our company for harassment or unequal treatment of any kind. Our continued strong performance is because of the efforts of our incredibly talented people and we will make certain the workplace facilitates the best possible performance for constant improvement to our culture and unwavering conviction to our values. Now turning to the second quarter. We exceeded our prior outlook, benefiting from strong execution by our creative and commercial team in delivering compelling experiences and in-game content to our deeply engaged community. Over the last two years, we have increased investment in our biggest opportunity, creating new ways for our communities to engage and investing in our franchises across platforms. This strategy has significantly expanded the financial scale of our three largest franchises: Call of Duty, World of Warcraft and Candy Crush, and this work continued to deliver strong results in the second quarter, even as countries continue to reopen from lockdown due to the pandemic. Looking forward, we continue to transform our franchise portfolio through faster delivery of compelling premium content, more robust in-game operation, expanding to mobile and accelerating new engagement models, including free-to-play and advertising. Now I'll discuss our Q2 franchise and operational highlights across our business units. Starting with Activision, where 127 million monthly active users engaged in our content in the second quarter. Our commitment to delivering innovative, engaging experiences to our expanded Call of Duty ecosystem continued to deliver strong results. The franchise sustained reach, engagement and player investment well above levels seen prior to our introduction of free-to-play experiences across console, PC and mobile. Across the Call of Duty ecosystem, second-quarter MAU were consistent versus the year ago quarter and over three times higher than Q2 of 2019. Hours played in the franchise in the second quarter were higher than for all of 2019. We continue to see robust engagement, even as regions continue to reopen. On console and PC, MAUs and time spent across Black Ops Cold War, Modern Warfare and Warzone saw higher retention from Q1 to Q2 in our experiences in years leading up to the launch of Warzone. Conversion from Warzone again drove strong premium sales in Q2 and multiples of the level typically seen in second quarters prior to last year. In-game player investment remains strong, with console and PC in-game net booking, similar to that seen in the first quarter. While lower year over year against the quarter that benefited from the launch of Warzone and likely more people at home, in-game net bookings in the quarter were approximately four times the level of Q2 2019. Our teams remain hard at work on the next new premium Call of Duty release, planned for the fourth quarter. From a setting that our fans know and love, to an incredible amount of content in development, including an extensive live ops schedule, we believe this release will be incredibly well received. In addition to launching a great, seamless experience for both current and next-gen console players, we are focused on continuing to integrate Warzone and engage our direct relationship with our player base through even deeper content integrations between the premium and free experiences and substantial innovations coming within Warzone itself. Our teams cannot wait to unveil what they have been working on. Call of Duty Mobile net bookings grew double digits year over year and sequentially, driven by strong execution in seasonal content in the West and the recent launch of the game in China. Our team continues to enhance the game, building on learnings from player data and leveraging over 15 years of Call of Duty content to deliver increasingly compelling content and driving greater player investment over time. As we build on this momentum, we recently added new social gameplay to the title and have new mode, map and seasonal events planned for the second half of the year. Call of Duty Mobile is on track to exceed $1 billion in consumer spending for the year. And as we continue to optimize the title, we're also investing in mobile capabilities with a singular goal to create the best mobile experiences for our community. We have established a new internal mobile studio and are aggressively adding mobile resources across several teams, including DNO and Activision Shanghai. Together, these teams are leading the development of an unannounced new mobile title within the Call of Duty universe that we expect will help take the franchise to new heights. Turning to Blizzard. We couldn't be more excited about the leadership changes. Jen and Mike are outstanding leaders, and we look forward to the impact they will have on the culture, accountability and fostering the very best work environment. The launch of Burning Crusade Classic in June marked the start of what is intended to be a very significant 18-month period for content releases. MAUs were 26 million. In the Warcraft franchise, World of Warcraft net bookings again grew double digits year over year in the second quarter, driven by the well-received launch of Burning Crusade Classic in June. Subscriber numbers and hours played were up following the release, again, showing the importance of Classic in enabling more ways for players to engage in WoW. The strength in Classic added to ongoing deep engagement in the modern game following the Q4 Shadowlands launch and the launch of its first major content update in June. And as a result, WoW remains on track for much stronger engagement this year than is typical outside of a modern expansion year. Elsewhere in the Warcraft Universe, Hearthstone's latest expansion, Forged in the Barrens delivered expansion over expansion net bookings growth for a second consecutive release. And with the latest expansion, United in Stormwind, launched today and Mercenaries, a new mode in the popular role-playing genre planned for the coming months, we expect Hearthstone's financial performance to strengthen in the second half of the year. Blizzard continues to make progress in its work on ambitious new Warcraft mobile experiences that can attract entirely new players to the franchise as well as offering new ways for existing fans to engage. Two Warcraft mobile experiences are in various stages of internal testing, with the team looking forward to sharing more about these titles soon. Now turning to Diablo. We have added hundreds of developers to the franchise over the last three years, and we continue to grow our teams as we prepare to launch three unique and complementary experiences across platform. Diablo II Resurrected will launch on PC and console on September 23. The anticipation for this remaster of the quintessential action role-playing game is high, and we can't wait for the community to experience the quality of the title. On mobile, Diablo Immortal continues to progress well through testing, receiving excellent feedback for its gameplay. We see substantial potential for this release, both in its own right as a long-running authentic Diablo experience and to broaden the franchise's reach ahead of Diablo IV. Recent testing revealed some exciting additional opportunities the team is going to pursue to make the title even more engaging for a wider audience. While that means the game is now planned for release in the first half of 2022, we believe these efforts will set the title up for an even greater contribution next year and beyond. And most importantly, Blizzard continues to make strong progress on Diablo IV. The game is shaping up incredibly well, and the team is allocating substantial resources to creating exciting content to drive engagement over multiple years. The expanded Overwatch team is similarly making strong progress on Overwatch 2, with development passing an important internal milestone in recent weeks. After a great response to the recent community update, the team is looking forward to revealing more of the game in the coming months as they approach the later stages of production. At King, the team continues to execute extremely well, again delivering double-digit net bookings growth against a tough year ago comparable. MAUs were 255 million. King continued to drive growth through its work to optimize live operation, in-game economies and user acquisition for titles, particularly Candy Crush and Farm Heroes, its two largest franchises. The business saw ongoing year-over-year growth in franchise payers and investment per player in the second quarter, with CanDy Crush once again the highest grossing game franchise in the United States app stores. Building on successful initiatives to broaden its payer base over the last two years, the Candy Crush team has been accelerating the delivery of compelling seasonal content that delights our players and drive in-game investment. In the second quarter, King reached a monthly cadence for seasonal content within Candy Crush Saga, its biggest title. These seasonal events not only sustain strong engagement among existing players but also drive reengagement of lapsed players as well as attracting new players to the franchise. The Candy team is planning an innovative slate of seasonal events and live operations for the second half of the year, including tie-ins with brands that value the association with our premium network, positioning the franchise for ongoing momentum in its in-game business. Even the advertising business is also delivering. Q2 advertising revenue grew sequentially and doubled year over year. King's ongoing initiatives to enhance the ad platform, work with more demand partners and reach more categories of advertisers drove year-over-year growth in both volume and pricing with broad-based strength across geographies. In summary, Q2 was another strong quarter. We are taking actions to address stakeholder concerns and the adverse consequences to our business. If we experience prolonged periods of adverse publicity, significantly reduced productivity or other negative consequences related to this matter, our business likely would be adversely impacted. We are carefully monitoring all aspects of our business for any such impacts. From a pipeline perspective, we have strong lineup plans for the second half of the year. And as we look to 2022, our current plans contemplate compelling new experiences across Call of Duty, WoW and Candy, alongside several major new titles across PC, console and mobile from Blizzard, with the aim to deliver significant expansion in the reach and engagement of our portfolio. Above all, as we go forward, I want to reemphasize that the safety and well-being of our employees is of our utmost priority. Our teams are the source of all creativity and magic in our games. Now I will hand over to Armin, who will provide a detailed review of our financial results. Armin?Armin Zerza -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Daniel. I want to reiterate that our priority is ensuring a workplace that provides opportunity for all in the most welcoming and inclusive way possible. Today, I'll review our second-quarter results as well as our outlook for the third quarter and full-year 2021. Our second-quarter results were ahead of our prior outlook, driven by both operational outperformance and some nonoperating items. For the first half, we delivered some double-digit, year-over-year growth in net bookings and solid growth in operating income in this year. We achieved new records for each, even as we continue to increase investment in the business, and our development teams to support our strong pipeline. As Region 3 opened, our business continues to operate at significantly greater scale than that seen prior to our successful growth initiatives across our largest franchise. Now let me turn to our consolidated financial results. Unless otherwise indicated, I'll be referencing non-GAAP figures. Please refer to our earnings release for full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations. For the quarter, we generated quarter 2 GAAP revenues of $2.30 billion, $161 million above our May guidance. This includes the net recognition of deferrals of $375 million. Net bookings of $1.92 billion were $71 million above our May outlook. And we generated quarter 2 GAAP EPS of $1.12 and core to non-GAAP EPS of $1.20, which was $0.29 above our guidance. These figures include the net recognition of deferrals of $0.29. Quarter 2 EPS includes a $0.07 benefit from a gain on an investment, most of which was unrealized. We also experienced a lower than effective tax rate in the quarter due to the timing of overseas tax reform. Although our full-year tax rate is something that is unchanged. Now turning to cash flow and the balance sheet. Quarter 2 operating cash flow was $388 million, lower year over year impacting operating results, local capital timing and the timing of cash taxes. During the quarter, we paid an annual dividend of $0.47 per share, 15% higher year over year for a total of $365 million. Our cash and investments at the end of June were approximately $9.6 billion, and we ended the quarter with a net cash position of approximately $6 million. Now let me turn to our segment results. Activision delivered another strong quarter, contributing to record first half segment revenue and operating income. Quarter 2 revenue was $789 million. As expected, Call of Duty revenue on PC and console was lower year over year against last year's quarter 2 that benefited from the March 2020 launches of Warzone and Modern Warfare Remastered as well as the introduction of [Inaudible]. However, Call of Duty Mobile grew strongly year over year. Quarter 2 segment operating income was $363 million, with an operating margin of 46%. Listed revenue was $433 million, with double-digit year-over-year growth in World of Warcraft, offset by product timing for Hearthstone and lower overseas revenues as explained in prior quarters. Operating income was $141 million with an operating margin of 53%, reflecting investments into product development against the risk content pipeline as well as sales and marketing around the launch of Burning Crusade at quarter end. King revenue grew 15% year over year to $635 million. This is another new record, driven by double-digit in-game revenue growth for Candy Crush and Farm Hero. Advertising revenue doubled year over year and trailing fourth quarter advertising revenue is now above $300 million for the first time. King operating margin was also strong at 39%, delivering record operating income at $248 million. Across our segments, strong execution in live operations and in-game content drove in-game net bookings to a combined $1.32 billion, broadly consistent with the level of the prior four quarters and almost 70% of total net bookings this quarter, the in-game business represents a recurring base of profitability for the company with a significant opportunity for further growth in both existing and new franchise experiences. Finally, the second quarter saw strong double-digit year-over-year growth in mobile net bookings, which exceeded a $3 billion annualized run rate for the first time this quarter. The mobile platform delivered more than 40% of total net bookings and is a key strategic priority for us as we expand each of our key franchises to mobile in the coming years. Now let me turn to our outlook for the third quarter and the full year. With regard to our slate, our expanded teams are focused on delivering epic in-game and upcoming content. In the third quarter, Activision fifth seasonal content for Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War and Warzone launches later this month. And the team will continue to release significant new features, events and seasons for Call of Duty Mobile. Today, Blizzard released Hearthstone's latest expansion, United in Stormwind. Diablo II: Resurrected, will launch on September 23. And King will support Candy Crush and other games across this portfolio with numerous seasonal events, features and innovative live operations. In the fourth quarter, in addition to ongoing [Inaudible] and in-game content across the portfolio, we're looking forward to Activision launching new core premium content alongside major new income experiences to Warcraft. These are the most important releases of the year for us, and we can't wait to show the community what our teams have been working on. In the second half, we will also continue to refine and test new mobile content in our pipeline, including for both Warcraft and Diablo. Consistent with our prior outlook, we don't include material revenue from new mobile titles in our guidance for the current year. Now before I discuss the specifics of our outlook, let me provide some context. We are taking substantial actions to address the concerns of employees and other key stakeholders. While there are risks that our business could be adversely impacted as Daniel discussed, currently, our business performance is strong. In the third quarter, we expect ongoing robust performance for Call of Duty, Candy and World of Warcraft, to be complemented by the launch of the Diablo II: Resurrected. While we are taking a prudent approach to our outlook, we do expect year-over-year net bookings growth in the third quarter. We will increase investments in the quarter in our product suite, compliance, employee relations and sales and marketing to help unlock the full potential of our franchises heading into 2022. As we move into the fourth quarter, where we continue to invest in the business, we expect lower costs and growth in earnings year over year. Finally, as mentioned, we experienced an investment gain in the second quarter, which we are passing through in our outlook based on evaluation at the end of July. Bringing this all together, we are once again raising our outlook for net bookings, revenue and EPS for the year. Now let me get into some specifics. For quarter 3 on a GAAP basis, we expect revenues of $1.97 billion, including the net recognition of deferrals of $120 million. We expect net bookings of $1.85 billion. We expect a GAAP operating margin of 35%, a tax rate of 22%, GAAP and non-GAAP share count of 785 million and EPS of 60%. For quarter 3 on a non-GAAP basis, we expect a tax rate of 20% and non-GAAP EPS of $0.75, including the net recognition of $0.10. Now turning to the fiscal year. On a GAAP basis for 2021, we expect revenues of $8.52 billion, including net defers of $135 million. We now expect net bookings of $8.65 billion. We expect the GAAP operating margin of 37%, a GAAP tax rate of 21%, GAAP and non-GAAP share count of 785 million and GAAP EPS of $3.08. For 2021 on a non-GAAP basis, we expect a tax rate of 20% and non-GAAP EPS of $3.54, including net deferrals of $0.22. In closing, our business continues to perform well in the second quarter, delivering strong results. We will continue investing in our creative team and positioning our franchisees for even greater reach and engagement in the future, with our current plans continuing to support growth in our financial performance in 2022. Look, as Bob and Daniel made it clear, we understand that our people are our greatest asset. These are the people responsible for our continued strong performance. We couldn't be more committed to ensuring an inclusive work environment for all our employees as well as the long-term sustainable growth. We'll be working with our team to improve our company together, to become the most inspiring and inclusive entertainment company possible. Now as Rob, Jen, Mike and Allen to join Bobby, Daniel and myself to answer your questions. Operator? 