
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the 2021 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participant lines are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]Now, I would now like to turn the call over to our first participant for today Mr. Steven Willoughby, Vice President of Investor Relations. Sir, please go ahead.Steven Willoughby -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Henry. Good morning everyone and welcome to the PerkinElmer second quarter 2021 earnings conference call. We are speaking to you this morning from San Diego and have quite a bit to get to given today's exciting announcement. In addition to the earlier than expected release of our second quarter results. On the call with me today are; Prahlad Singh, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Jamey Mock, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Gene Lay, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of BioLegend. If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release, or slide presentation or BioLegend related slide presentation of press release you may find copies of them on the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com. Please note, this call is being webcast and will be archived on PerkinElmer's website until August 09, 2021.Before I begin, I would like to turn to Slide 2 and remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this morning and also those in our SEC filings. Statements or comments made on this call will be forward-looking statements which may include, but not are necessarily limited to financial projections or other statements of the company's plans, objectives, expectations or intentions. These matters involve certain risks and uncertainties. The company's actual results may differ significantly from those projected or suggested by any forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors which are discussed in detail in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views as of today. We disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change, so you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.During this call, we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release. To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment, we will do so promptly.I'll now, turn it over to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Prahlad Singh. Prahlad.

 



Prahlad Singh -- President & Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Steve. Building off our June 24 Analyst Day, today represents another milestone in the transformation of the new PerkinElmer. The addition of BioLegend expands our presence in the attractive high growth antibody and cytokine market, enhances our content development capabilities across all PerkinElmer detection technologies and transforms our E-scale-our E commerce scale overnight. Personally, I couldn't be more thrilled to work with Gene and the team going forward. And I'm excited to see the impact the combined company can have on scientific innovation.Culturally, the combination is a natural fit with our mutual focus on customers, innovation and internal cross functional collaboration. BioLegend is a global leader in innovative antibodies with leading positions in several attractive markets, including imaging, proteogenomics, multiplex assays and bio processing. The combination will enable us to create a global platform of research reagents, which as we'll share with you today will fundamentally change the trajectory for both organizations, combining PerkinElmer and BioLegend will empower customers in pre-clinical discovery who are looking to identify, develop, and optimize novel therapeutics, and in turn support them in bringing the right therapeutics to market faster. Fundamentally, bringing BioLegend into the PerkinElmer family will further enhance our core right to win in biopharma and academia.And from a financial perspective, we expect this exciting combination to lead to faster growth, stronger margins, and more rapid product-new product innovation with a strategically aligned structure to ensure success. While Jamey will touch on it in more specifics, I wanted to provide you some perspective on what this deal means for the company overall. For the slightly more than $5 billion in total consideration, we are combining with a company that is expected to have nearly $400 million in revenue next year that we expect to grow in the mid-teens or more excluding expected synergies. Not only will this accelerate our organic growth profile once it is in the base, but we expect its favorable margins to result in a several 100 basis point increase in the overall company's operating profit rate. Given these dynamics, we expect the deal will provide significant immediate accretion to our adjusted EPS, which we expect will compound in future years.

 



We have a lot to discuss this morning, but before we dive in fully, I wanted to give Gene Lay, BioLegend's Founder and CEO, the opportunity to introduce himself and share his thoughts and excitement for this combination, and the opportunities it brings from his perspective.Gene?Gene Lay -- Founder & Chief Executive Officer, BioLegend PerkinElmer, Inc.Thank you, Prahlad.We are thrilled to join the PerkinElmer team to further carry out our company mission of enabling legendary discovery from research to cure. Over the past 30 years, we have built BioLegend into a leading global innovator of reagents and consumables for the life sciences with several disruptive technology platforms, and a large diversified product portfolio, targeting a variety of categories, including cell analysis, proteogenomics, and other rapidly growing and attractive applications.Today we have more than, 10,000 customers across 130 countries, demonstrating our strong brand leadership, growth portfolio offering, high quality and efficient manufacturing and a strong commercial and supply chain infrastructure. As a BioLegend, we have always been dedicated to developing innovative products that deliver high quality and value to customer worldwide, and setting the industry standard for customer service. And we believe, we are still at the start of the massive opportunity that lies ahead. Our product portfolio is positioned to capitalize on the most rapidly growing areas of the life sciences. By combining with the PerkinElmer, we will be able to employ our technology capabilities with a global infrastructure to become the global leader in reagents and consumables. We look forward to working together with PerkinElmer to benefit life science, researchers and patients they aim to help.Prahlad Singh -- President & Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Gene. I want to formally welcome you and your team to the PerkinElmer family. And as we've discussed over the last few months, as we've gotten to know each other. I'm so excited for what this means for both companies, and what the combined business is going to be able to do together in the years to come.I'm now on Slide 4. Let me tell you some more about BioLegend. It's a world class organization, propelled by a strong team top to bottom. The company has achieved leading market positions in a number of attractive high growth end markets, such as antibody development, flow cytometry reagents, proteogenomics, magnetic cell separation, recombinant proteins, cytokines and growth factors. These represent a total addressable market of approximately $6 billion, with areas of expertise that span from upstream research and immunology, oncology, stem cell research, neuroscience and infectious disease to downstream bioprocessing. It's more than 700 employees across the US and Asia Pacific Europe serve over 10,000 customers in 130 countries. The company also has a stellar track record of new product introduction launching over 1,000 NPIs annually in both new and existing markets. Moreover, all of its revenue is recurring in nature and its world class manufacturing and distribution capabilities translate to its very attractive incremental margin profile.Finally, what you'll come to recognize is that both PerkinElmer and BioLegend share a fierce passion and commitment to focusing on the customer. BioLegend mission is helping scientists accelerate research and discovery by providing the highest quality products at an outstanding value, along with superior customer service and technical support. But more succinctly said the BioLegend team is passionate about making a mark on the world and being legendary in their own right at pushing the boundaries of biological understanding.As you can see on Slide 5, BioLegend's headquarters reside at its beautiful new expansive State-of-the-Art Campus in San Diego, California, where we are today. This four building Campus in San Diego will become the Global Center of Excellence for PerkinElmer's reagent content development to serve our entire life science portfolio. Combining our company's expertise to create an even more nimble and powerful reagents innovation engine will enable us to accelerate the pace of new product introduction in existing markets, as well as a new high growth areas of focus for the company, such as cell and gene therapy, and single cell analysis. For example, we will be able to combine BioLegend's leading position in proteogenomics with PerkinElmer's well recognized Cisbio kits to aid in the upstream discovery and identification of new peptides, and then measure analytes downstream for drug target studies. We can support customers, both from the low to high throughput testing, as well as potentially at the single cell level with a Honeycomb HIVE technology.We also believe that our diagnostics business will benefit from faster, new antibody based assay development with lower costs, by having in-house, access to not only an existing antibody library, but also now an expanded global team of new product development experts. As I'll touch on a bit more later, we expect this combined research region franchise to leverage PerkinElmer's global scale and each other strong customer relationships to enable even greater commercial success. By leveraging each company's core strength, its people, as well as the combined innovation engines, PerkinElmer's geographic and channel breadth, along with focused research reagent operational excellence, we will elevate the already strong franchises of both companies in the minds of customers, ultimately resulting in even faster growth than they would on their own. This is why we expect this combination to result in more than $100 million of annual synergy revenue synergies by year five.On Slide 6, you'll see that with BioLegend's nearly $400 million in expected revenue next year, combined with our existing over $300 million of research reagent business, PerkinElmer will now have one of the largest antibody and research reagent businesses in the industry, with annual revenues of approximately $700 million. Through healthy end market growth, share gains, and new product innovation in the margin high growth areas, we expect this combined business to grow at a low double digit rate annually for the foreseeable future.I'd now like to ask Jamey to provide more detail on what this combination means for PerkinElmer from a financial perspective, and share his perspective on the strategic alignment of the combined company.Jamey?Jamey Mock -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThanks a lot. I echo the same sentiments. It's been great to meet Gene and the team who are here with us today, and I'm equally excited about the impact we can have on improving outcomes for all stakeholders. The addition of BioLegend further accelerates the transformation of the new PerkinElmer and it positions us to deliver even stronger financial performance, top to bottom, in the years ahead. As we most recently told you at our investor day last month, we outline here again on Slide 7, we expect the existing PerkinElmer business to grow 5% to 7% organically per year, through 2023, and in the mid-single to high single digit range, longer term as we deliver on our strategic imperatives.Given the size and expected growth of BioLegend, combined with the revenue synergies we expect to start contributing in year one, we see the combined company growing at least 100 basis points faster annually than our previous outlook in both the near and long term. As you know, with an expected close by the end of this year, BioLegend won't start positively impacting our organic growth until 2023 when it's added to our base. And since BioLegend's revenue is entirely reagents and consumables, PerkinElmer will now have around 75% of its revenue by recurring in nature, up a few 100 basis points from pre-COVID levels. Given BioLegend's accretive margin profile, we now expect overall company operating margins to increase by approximately 300 basis points from current levels by 2023. We expect our previously communicated goal of 50 to 75 basis points of annual operating margin expansion to continue, with improvements in the existing PKI business to largely come with the gross margin line from our operational excellence initiatives that we highlighted at our recent analysts meeting. While we expect BioLegend's rapid top line growth to provide some opportunities at the OpEx line, while continuing to reinvest heavily in R&D, as the company has throughout its history.Today, more than 50% of BioLegend's business is through their e-commerce channels. We plan to leverage this with our Horizon Ansys bio platforms to further scale this ecosystem, with approximately $700 million in annualized life science research revenues. We have the opportunity to rapidly scale our go to market synergies across the portfolio.Finally, with nearly all of BioLegend's revenue coming from biopharma, and academic end markets, and while we will continue to invest organically in our more cyclical businesses. We expect that in 2023, more than 80% of PerkinElmer's total revenue would come from our life science and diagnostic businesses. In terms of the structure of the deal, I think it's very advantageous from many angles. Let's walk through them here on Slide 8. First of all, this is by far the largest deal in the history of PerkinElmer, and it's adding tremendous skill to our life science franchise. We are able to combine the businesses while managing our leverage and also closely aligning our interests with those of existing BioLegend's shareholders, who clearly see the potential over the coming years in the combined organization.While we have fully underwritten bridge financing already in place, and will seek to take out appropriate permanent debt in the coming months, it is exciting to see BioLegend's existing concentrated shareholder base will now make up slightly more than 10% of PerkinElmer's its overall ownership. Along with Gene and the other BioLegend's shareholders, we feel this structure provides near-term cash compensation for the great business that has been built over nearly two decades, while maintaining a significant interest in seeing and participating in the future success of the combined business going forward, which we all agree is very bright.Following the completion of this deal, we expect our net leverage to go slightly over four times in the first part of 2022, but we plan to delever to under three times net debt to adjusted EBITDA within 18 to 24 months, as we are committed and fully expect to maintain investment grade ratings. In addition to the promising future, we believe the company holds from an innovation, customer and employee opportunity perspective, we expect the overall company's faster top line growth and enhanced margin profile should deliver an incremental $0.30 of adjusted EPS accretion in the first year post-close and greater than $0.50 of accretion in the second year for our shareholders, with a high single-digit return on invested capital in year six.As you can see, I think this combination has all the right buttons from a strategic, cultural, financial and future innovation perspective, and I couldn't be more excited for the future of PerkinElmer.And now, I'd like to turn it back to Prahlad, for some final comments on the combination.Prahlad Singh -- President & Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jamey. As you get to better know BioLegend and its entrepreneurial team, I think you will find that by joining with PerkinElmer, it is creating a true antibody and life science reagent powerhouse that will have the scale to be able to accelerate scientific advancement, and new product innovation across the company and around the world. I believe this combination positions PerkinElmer as a best-in-class preclinical life sciences franchise, that is uniquely positioned to empower our external partners to deliver truly legendary discoveries over the coming years as the power of both companies' employees and assets come together under one roof. I expect that this heightened pace of collaborative innovation combined with our broad commercial reach will lead to faster overall growth for PerkinElmer, while having an elevated margin profile with immediate significant EPS accretion.Even more importantly, BioLegend's joining forces with PerkinElmer complements the value from the other life science businesses that have joined our company over the last few years, such as Cisbio, Horizon Discovery, and very recently, Nexcelom Bioscience, and SIRION Biotech. I couldn't be more excited for where I see us going in the future.I'd now, like to turn the call back over to Jamey to discuss our 2Q results and updated guidance for the remainder of the year. Jamey?Jamey Mock -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Prahlad. The team performed extremely well during the second quarter with all businesses and end markets returning to growth versus 2019 levels. Our non-quarter COVID order growth again exceeded our strong non-COVID revenue growth for the third quarter in a row, while our COVID revenue came in solidly above our previous expectation, despite declining sequentially as expected.During the second quarter, adjusted revenue grew 51% compared to the last year to over $1.2 billion and included a 5% foreign exchange and a 6% acquisition tailwind. Organic revenue grew 41%, 12 percentage points better than what we previously communicated as our non-COVID revenue grew 28% organically, well above the high teens rate we were expecting. Our COVID-related products and services contributed $365 million in the quarter, solidly above our previous $325 million expectation as demand for our PCR tests and RNA extraction solutions did not fall off to the degree we previously expected, especially in the areas that have lower vaccination rates and increased presence of variants such as in parts of Europe and Southeast Asia.Our turnkey Lab-In-A-Lab testing solutions in the State of California and the United Kingdom performed in line with expectations resulting in our core COVID products generating approximately $155 million in revenue in the quarter. By business, Diagnostics representing 58% of total sales increased 59% organically, with 40% organic growth in non-COVID products. Strength in our Immunodiagnostics business lead the way, driven by COVID and non-COVID sales with EUROIMMUN's non-COVID business continuing to rebound strongly. Our Reproductive Health business was able to offset continued birth rate pressures and post double-digit growth year-over-year and mid-single-digit growth on a two-year average basis. Our Applied Genomics business saw a strong rebound in non-COVID-related demand, which doubled versus last year, offsetting expected declines in COVID-related products.Discovery and Analytical Solutions representing 42% of total sales increased 22% organically with broad-based growth across life sciences, food, and applied. From a geographic perspective, non-COVID organic growth was extremely well-balanced with all three regions growing similarly, while China also grew in the high 20% range. Operationally, it was another strong quarter of leveraging the significant revenue growth, we experienced, as adjusted operating margins expanded 535 basis points to 33.5%, driven by volume leverage, business mix and productivity programs. Adjusted earnings per share of $2.83 in the second quarter increased 81% relative to the second quarter of 2020 and was $0.48 above our guidance.Looking further into the key drivers within our segments, let's start with the Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment, which grew 22% organically versus the same period last year. By end market, we experienced well balanced double-digit growth in each segment with life sciences being up nearly 20% against a flat comp in the second quarter of 2020. This was driven by strong growth in both pharma biotech and academic government end markets. Discovery grew more than 30%, while Analytical grew more than 20% year-over-year. Late in the quarter, we also close on our acquisition of Nexcelom, and are excited to add their team and innovative cell counting technologies to our life sciences platform.Food posted strong growth in the second quarter, which was aided by fairly easy year ago comparisons. Our Meizheng food safety business in China continue to rebound, growing 60% compared to the second quarter of last year. Cannabis activity began to return and contribute to growth, and we expect this level of impact to continue to improve over the remainder of the year. Industrial and environmental safety grew in line with our overall DAS segment with balance performance from a geographic perspective with strengthen both spectroscopy and chromatography and notable demand from semiconductor customers.Turning to Diagnostics; as I mentioned earlier, our organic growth increased 59% with double-digit growth in Europe and Asia, and triple-digit growth in the Americas, due to our larger lab services business here now compared to a year ago. While COVID revenue was up year-over-year, our non-COVID diagnostic business still grew approximately 40%, compared to the second quarter of last year and posted double-digit growth on a two-year average basis. Our immunodiagnostics franchise led the way, posting over 100% year-over-year growth for the quarter, as incremental COVID revenue was joined by nearly 50% growth in non-COVID revenue led by both EUROIMMUN and Tulip. While RT-PCR COVID demand did slow as testing has come down, COVID serology demand continues to remain consistent for the last few quarters, though down significantly from a year ago period when the initial rush of demand made its way into the market.Oxford Immunotec has also begun to see some nice COVID related demand outside of the United States first T-SPOT Discovery SARS-CoV kit, which measures T cell immune responses. Finally, shortly after the quarter ended, we closed on our acquisition of Immunodiagnostic Systems, and we can't wait to see what the collaboration that we'll have with our strong EUROIMMUN franchise, and both the near term, but maybe even more importantly, the longer-term.In our Applied Genomics business, organic revenue grew nearly 20% overall, despite COVID related demand dropping off meaningfully as non-COVID demand doubled compared to the year ago period. The strong non-COVID growth in applied genomics was broad based, and included key contributions from newer external partnerships, and recent product introductions. We've also seen an uptick from non-COVID NGS customers who appear to be pivoting back to their former areas of focus at the pandemic moderates. From a COVID perspective, we've seen some nice wins recently in Asia, including supporting COVID testing capacity for this year's Olympics in Japan. We've also seen an uptick in next generation sequencing demand related to COVID, as additional variants continue to emerge around the world.Our reproductive health franchise grew high teens off a negative year ago comparison. While on a two-year average basis the business still grew in the mid-single digits. The growth was well balanced geographically in the quarter with all regions posting double digit growth versus the second quarter of last year. While birth rates appear to remain under pressure globally, our neonatal and prenatal businesses still posted solid growth due to continued geographic and menu expansions while our lab businesses grew strongly in Asia several new product introduction introductions, such as the Superflex which is being used for preeclampsia screening is continuing to help offset birth rate related pressures. Moving to below the line items, adjusted net interest and other expense for the second quarter was approximately $15 million, while our adjusted tax rate was 20%.Turning to the balance sheet; we finished the quarter with approximately $2.4 billion of debt and $600 million of cash. Adjusted free cash flow was $267 million in the quarter, which equates to an adjusted free cash flow conversion rate of 84%, including a large payment that we received a few days after later than expected during the first week of the third quarter, our free cash flow conversion would have been, again, over 100% of adjusted net income.Finally, we exited the quarter with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of approximately 0.9 times even with the first quarter of 2021. As it relates to guidance, we now anticipate full year 2021 adjusted revenue of $4.57 billion. This guidance assumes COVID revenues of approximately $1.14 billion compared to our prior guidance of $1.10 billion and the $1.05 billion we did last year. This update accounts for the 2Q outperformance while leaving our second half COVID expectations unchanged. We expect our non-COVID revenue to continue to remain strong over the remainder of the year that we will not be facing quite as easy year ago comparisons as we did this quarter. This translates into us now expecting non-COVID organic growth of 15% for the year, up from our 11% previous outlook. These assumptions do not account for any incremental lockdowns and/or any COVID related disruptions.Additionally, we are anticipating as 6% benefit from acquisitions, now that both NexION and IDs have closed and a 3% benefit from foreign exchange for the full year. We are not taking into account the Syrian acquisition, which is now expected to close at the end of August nor anything related to BioLegend. On the bottom line, we are now expecting adjusted earnings per share of $9.88, which assumes approximately $58 million in adjusted interest and other expense, a tax rate of 21% and an average diluted share count in the range of 112 million to 113 million shares.For the third quarter, we are forecasting adjusted revenue of approximately $1 billion, representing a minus 5% year over year decline and our total company organic growth due to the expected year over year declines in COVID revenue and a 7% and 2% contribution from acquisitions and foreign exchange respectively. Embedded in this guidance is $165 million of COVID related revenue compared to $288 million a year ago and organic growth of 12% in our non-COVID product lines. In terms of adjusted earnings per share for the third quarter we are forecasting $1.62 which assumes approximately $16 million of interest in other expenses, a 21% tax rate and a diluted share count of 112 million 113 million shares. All of this guidance is detailed in this second to last page of today's presentation.In closing, the business continues to perform extremely well so far in 2021. With the foundational pillars, we highlighted at our recent analyst day, and now the exciting addition of BioLegend, I feel we are extremely well-positioned for what lies ahead from a customer, and scientific innovation perspective, the opportunities this company has to offer its employees, and the strong financial profile we have for our shareholders. This perspective is purely reflection of the tremendous efforts of my 14,000, soon to be more than 15,000 colleagues around the globe that have helped build a company into what it is today and have laid the foundation for more significant growth in the future.I'd like to now turn it back over to the operator to begin Q&A.