
OperatorGood morning and welcome to the Match Group's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Bill Archer, Head of Investor Relations and Corporate Development. Please go ahead.William Archer -- Head, Investor Relations & Corporate Development

 



Thank you, operator and good morning everyone. This call will be led by CEO, Shar Dubey; and CFO and COO, Gary Swidler. They will make a few brief remarks and then we'll open it up for questions.Before we start, I need to remind everyone that during this call, we may discuss our outlook and future performance. These forward-looking statements may be preceded by words such as we expect, we believe, we anticipate or similar statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and our actual results could differ materially from the views expressed today. Some of these risks have been set forth in our earnings release and our periodic reports filed with the SEC.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Shar.Shar Dubey -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Bill. Good morning and thank you all for joining the call today. Today, Gary and I are doing this call from our brand new offices in New York. We had another strong quarter with over 25% year-over-year revenue growth, also a record EBITDA quarter for us.Tinder in particular showed real strength, with not only 20% plus revenue growth, but also adding a record number of subscribers and payers this quarter. It is a historical high for Tinder, even higher than the quarter when Tinder Gold drove that. I'm also excited to have our first woman CEO at Tinder. Renate has seamlessly taken over the helm there and the team hasn't missed a beat of their journey to transform the Tinder experience. Explore which is a new surface area within the Tinder app rolled out globally a couple of weeks ago. It is a dynamic interface which allow users to connect with others through new experiences beyond the Swipe that used to be Tinder. These experiences can be tailored by market. It keeps Tinder at the center of culture. Gives users new reasons to keep coming back, increases engagement and activity. In fact, our successful Swipe Night series of coming to Tinder on Explore in a brand new series starting November 7. Not only is it a very compelling Gen Z whose done it story line, this time it has a bunch of features like Fast Chat built-in that should amplify the conversations that follow on Tinder.Hinge had another great quarter across all metrics, doubling revenue again. The one business that is seeing an unexpected softness is the main revenue driving app at Hyperconnect Azar. It's had a few months of headwinds in some key markets in Asia, some of it is COVID, some of it is marketing performance, some product related delays. However, South Korea has finally opened up to international travel and our teams were able to meet over the last couple of weeks in person. We're working closely with them now on marketing to product roadmap in order to reverse the trend.I am extremely optimistic about this team and technology asset as a long-term value creator for our portfolio, especially as we enter what we described in the Shareholder Letter as the next phase of Match Group's evolution in the dating category. In fact, my long-term thesis was further validated in the last couple of weeks when the team there walked me through a new concept of beta testing on some college campuses in Seoul. It's called Singletown. It is a platform where your digital sell in the form of real-time audio powered avatars can serendipitously need other than virtual phases, like a bar or you can sit down with someone in a park bench to have a one-on-one or a group conversation.

 



There is, for instance, a piano bar where people digital sell are gathering around, but they are actually playing their pianos at home and jamming with others. You can overhear a conversation, join conversations, you can tap into the digital avatars to see more of their profile and you have basically a richer set of signals to help connect with someone. It is metaverse experiences coming to life in a way that is transformative to how people meet and get to know each other on a dating or social discovery platform, and is much more akin to how people interact in the real world. It is super early, but we are seeing some encouraging early signals in terms of engagement among Gen Z in Seoul. Already the average daily time spend is about an hour and growing. Sub-cultures are forming, it is resonating with both genders, and as we talked about in our letter, this next phase of dating apps in particular is going to be all about richer, more organic and more akin to real-life ways of discovering, meeting and getting to know people. Technology is finally getting there and this underlying technology platform Hyperconnect has built the power Singletown, has been built in a way that it can be leveraged by other platforms easily.So my long-term view on what this talented team and technology brings to the portfolio is ever-stronger. Finally, based on everything we are hearing and seeing, this coming season should be a strong one as people are ready to shake off the COVID malaise and get out there and date and mate. It's also shaping up to be one of the busiest wedding seasons. I feel good about it reenergized and much more social holiday season. These social interactions are incredibly important for us, collect of mental health and well being. So, I for one, am rooting for a healthy holiday season and a post holiday peak season for us as we enter the New Year.And with that I will hand it over to Gary to provide some more color on the quarter.Gary Swidler -- Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Shar. We had a strong Q3, with total revenue of $802 million, up 25% year-over-year. Our businesses excluding Hyperconnect produced total revenue of $748 million, up 17% year-over-year. Total payers reached 16.3 million in Q3, an increase of 16% from the prior year quarter. Growth was strong in all geographies, up 11% year-over-year in the Americas, 13% in Europe and 36% in APAC and Other, where the count reflects the full quarter of contribution from Hyperconnect. RPP was up 8% year-over-year to $16.06 in Q3, up 5% in the Americas, 6% in Europe and 17% in APAC and Other, again reflecting a full quarter from Hyperconnect where RPP exceeded $30. Our direct revenue grew 17% in the Americas, 20% in Europe and 59% in APAC and Other, again due to full quarter of Hyperconnect results. APAC and Other now comprises approximately 22% of our direct revenue.Tinder was a standout in the quarter, delivering direct revenue of $434 million, up 20% year -- up over 20% year-over-year. Tinder had phenomenal payers growth, up 19% year-over-year, adding 1.7 million payers, the most in its history, reaching 10.4 million. Some of this growth did come at the expense of RPP which grew 1% year-over-year in the quarter. Tinder had a number of conversion wins in the quarter, particularly in the lower price subscription tier. Tinder Platinum adoption is ahead of schedule, with total Platinum subscribers reaching nearly 1 million. Tinder engagement also remains very strong with both Swipe activity and daily average messages significantly above pre-pandemic levels. All Other Brands grew direct revenue 32% year-over-year in Q3. In this group, Hinge was the standout, growing direct revenue over 100%, driven by RPP growth of north of 70% and payers growth of 20%. BLK and Chispa by upward in aggregate grew direct revenue over 80% year-over-year in Q3.Hyperconnect contributed $53 million of total revenue in the quarter, below our expected range. Hyperconnect is facing pressure as largest revenue generating app Azar especially in certain Middle Eastern markets. It also faced delays in rolling out certain product initiatives and a challenging marketing environment. We're working diligently with the Hyperconnect team to improve performance and deliver sustainable long-term growth.Indirect revenue reached $16 million, the highest ever in quarter, up 40% year-over-year. It appears our strong brands, relatively lower ad loads and contextual targeting have been especially appealing to advertisers in the current environment. Operating income grew 10% year-over-year to $221 million and EBITDA grew 15% year-over-year to $285 million in Q3. EBITDA margins were 36% or would have been 39% ex-Hyperconnect. Overall, expenses including SBC expense grew 32% year-over-year in Q3 with more than half the total increase resulting from the acquisition of Hyperconnect. Excluding the impact of Hyperconnect, cost of revenue grew 20% year-over-year due to higher IFPs and represented 27% of total revenue.Sales and marketing spend excluding Hyperconnect was up $5 million, due to slightly higher marketing spend across our portfolio, but were down 2 points year-over-year as a percent of total revenue to 18%. G&A expense ex-Hyperconnect rose 8% year-over-year primarily due to an increase in legal fees and was 13% of revenue, down 1 point year-over-year. Product development costs ex-Hyperconnect grew 37% year-over-year and were 7% of revenue, as we increased headcount at several brands mainly Tinder and Hinge.Our gross leverage declined to 3.8 times trailing EBITDA and our net leverage was 3.3 times at the end of Q3. We believe our target of below 3 times net leverage by the end of 2021 is within reach. In a complex series of related transactions, we repurchased $414 million aggregate principal amount of our 2022 exchangeable notes for approximately $1.5 billion in cash, using the proceeds from issuing 5.5 million shares of common stock, $500 million of new 3.65% 10-year unsecured debt and the unwind of the related bond hedges and warrants. These transactions, which were executed in the third quarter, but sales in the fourth quarter, created an embedded derivative on which we recorded a $39 million loss in Q3, but also on which we expect to recognize $24 million gain in Q4.We had operating cash flow of $667 million in the quarter and free cash flow of $614 million. We ended the quarter with $523 million of cash and short-term investments on hand.For Q4, we expect total revenue from Match Group of $810 million to $820 million, which would represent 24% to 26% year-over-year growth. Building off the conversion strength achieved in Q3, we expect Tinder's year-over-year direct revenue growth to accelerate toward the mid 20% range in Q4. Our expectation is that Hyperconnect will deliver revenue in Q4 at similar level to Q3. Between weaker Q3 performance and lowered expectations for Q4, we have reduced Hyperconnect's revenue contribution by approximately $20 million for full year 2021. We expect full year stand-alone Hyperconnect revenue to be about $210 million. Despite softer performance at Hyperconnect, strength at Tinder and Hinge, position us to deliver around $3 billion of total revenue in full year 2021, representing 25% year-over-year growth. Notably, we expect Tinder direct revenue growth to be above 20% in full year 2021.We expect EBITDA of $285 million to $290 million in Q4, representing 16% to 18% year-over-year growth and margin at Hyperconnect roughly in line with the prior year quarter. For the full year, we expect EBITDA to be above our previously communicated high-end of the range of $1.060 billion, up nearly 20% year-over-year.Typically we provide some initial thoughts on the upcoming year on our Q3 call. For the past several years, our initial outlook has been mid to high teens revenue growth. For 2022, we expect our businesses ex-Hyperconnect to once again deliver that level of growth, driven by another strong year for Tinder and for Hinge as it begins expansion into non-English speaking markets. With the full year of Hyperconnect revenue contribution included, we expect the company to grow total revenue closer to 20% year-over-year in 2022. We will provide a more precise revenue outlook on our February call once we see how the strategic changes with Hyperconnect and the new product initiatives across the portfolio begin to take hold.Excluding impacts from IR policy changes that go into effect in 2022, we expect to see about 1 point of margin improvement at our businesses ex-Hyperconnect and for Hyperconnect to achieve mid single-digit EBITDA margins next year. While we anticipate legal expenses to be meaningfully lower next year, we plan to reinvest a portion of that savings into important safety and corporate and social responsibility initiatives, also given the highly competitive job market, we may reinvest to attract and retain crucial talent. The level of investments we choose to make in these areas will impact the actual amount of margin expansion we achieve.The biggest swing factor in our 2022 EBITDA outlook is what happens with App Store fees, which are increasingly large percent of our revenue, up from 17% in 2020 to an estimated 19% in 2021, totaling over $550 million. There are numerous actions across the globe scrutinizing App of Google's requirement that we use our payment system and pay a 30% fee. A reduction in these fees would have numerous positive consequences, including enabling us to pass along benefits to consumers. Google has agreed to reduce fees for subscriptions [Indecipherable] and from 30% to 15% starting January 1, 2022, but they also sell the policy change to acquire use of their billing system shceduled to go into effect at the end of March 2022.There are many unknowns regarding Apple's plans for IAAP, including whether and how they intend to comply with the law of banning mandatory IAAP in South Korea and injunction the epic decision, which requires them to eliminate the anti-steering provision by December 9, 2021. We're going to watch these developments around the app stores for at least another few months, before we provide our EBITDA outlook for next year. We're optimistic more changes the ecosystem are likely.There is a lot going on across our business, including a meaningful product evolution at Tinder and many of our other brands. We're excited to execute on our product roadmap and to continue evolving the experience for our users. We recognize that people around the world are increasingly turning to digital products to meet and socialize. Our job is to continue to build new and exciting products and experiences that we will feel the connect, something we have been a leader to add for more than 25 years. We're confident that if we remain focused on delivering outstanding products, we will continue to deliver strong growth and financial results for our stakeholders for many more years to come.With that, I'll ask the operator open the line for questions.