
OperatorWelcome to the Quest Diagnostics Second Quarter 2021 Conference Call. At the request of the Company, this call is being recorded. The entire contents of the call, including the presentation and question-and-answer session that will follow are the copyrighted property of Quest Diagnostics with all rights reserved. Any redistribution, retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the written consent of Quest Diagnostics is strictly prohibited.Now, I'd like to introduce Shawn Bevec, Vice President of Investor Relations for the Quest Diagnostics Group. Go ahead, please.Shawn Bevec -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, and good morning. I'm here with Steve Rusckowski, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President; and Mark Guinan, our Chief Financial Officer. During this call, we may make forward-looking statements and we'll discuss non-GAAP measures. We provide a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures in the tables to our earnings press release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected. Risks and uncertainties, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic that may affect Quest Diagnostics' future results, include but are not limited to, those described in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequently filed quarterly report on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.The Company continues to believe that the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on future operating results, cash flows and/or its financial condition will be primarily driven by the pandemic severity and duration, healthcare insurer, government and clients payer reimbursement rates for COVID-19 molecular tests, the pandemic's impact on the US healthcare system and the US economy, and the timing scope and effectiveness of federal, state and local governmental responses to the pandemic, including the impact of vaccination efforts, which are drivers beyond the Company's knowledge and control.For this call, references to reported EPS refer to reported diluted EPS, and references to adjusted EPS refer to adjusted diluted EPS. Any references to base business, testing revenues or volumes refer to the performance of our business, excluding COVID-19 testing. Growth rates associated with our long-term outlook projections, including total revenue growth, revenue growth from acquisitions, organic revenue growth and adjusted earnings growth are compound annual growth rates. Finally, revenue growth rates from acquisitions will be measured against our base business.Now, here is Steve Rusckowski.

 



Stephen H. Rusckowski -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and PresidentThanks, Shawn, and thanks, everyone, for joining us today. Well, we had another strong quarter and continue to build momentum thanks to faster than expected recovery in our base business.Organic base testing revenues grew compared to 2019 levels in the quarter. This is the first quarter since 2019 that organic base testing revenues grew. The growth was driven by contributions from new hospital lab management contracts, as well as people returning to healthcare system. We are well-positioned to continue our momentum and support the return to healthcare in the coming months, which is reflected in the outlook we have provided for the remainder of 2021.This morning, I'll discuss our performance for the second quarter of 2021, provide perspective on industry dynamics, and update you on our base business. And then Mark will provide more detail on our financial results and talk about our outlook and underlying assumptions.

 



First, with regard to COVID-19 testing. We are closely watching the rapid spread of the delta variant, where testing continues to help control the spread of the virus. In recent weeks, we have seen PCR volumes stabilize and begin to increase modestly. Positivity rates have increased in all geographies served by our performing lab through the last two weeks. COVID-19 testing also remains critical as employees return to the workplace, students return to the classroom in a few weeks. And once we experienced another lockdown, we expect people to return to pre-pandemic healthcare and in some cases, catch up with healthcare they might have postponed during the pandemic.Now, turning to PAMA, and the recent MedPAC report mandated under the LAB Act. We were pleased that MedPAC founded feasible to change the CMS data collection process to a statistically valid sample of private payer rates for independent labs, hospital labs and physician office labs. This approach produced an accurate representatives market view of laboratory rates while reducing the burden on reporting laboratories, which is consistent with the charge of the LAB Act in the original intent of PAMA. The MedPAC report estimates that Medicare spending for the top 100 tests on the clinical lab fee schedule could increase by 10% to 15% over current rates based on certain rate and volume assumptions. And separately, our trade association recently appealed this legally challenged to PAMA which was dismissed by a US District Court in late March.ACLA has asset its right challenge the regulatory overreach by HHS in the implementation of PAMA. Along with our trade association, we will continue to work with policymakers to establish a clinical lab fee schedule that is truly representative of the market, and supports continued innovation and access to vital laboratory services for Medicare beneficiaries, as Congress originally intended. Now is the time to strengthen our laboratory infrastructure and support continued access to high-quality lab services that patients depend on.Turning to our results for the second quarter. Total revenues grew by nearly 40% to $2.6 billion. Earnings per share increased by more than 264% on a reported basis to $4.96, and nearly 124% on an adjusted basis to $3.18. Cash provided by operations increased by more than 30% to $460 million.In the second quarter, we continue to see a better than expected recovery in our base business, with organic base testing revenues essentially returning to pre-pandemic levels in June. We're seeing a strong recovery in most of the country and a slower recovery in the Northeast. Demand for COVID-19 testing slowed in the quarter, as expected, reflecting an industry wide trend. Though in the last few weeks of June, demand stabilized and has since increased modestly, which we believe is attributable to some extent to the emergence of the delta variance.We performed an average of 57,000 COVID-19 molecular tests today in the second quarter, well below our current capacity of approximately 300,000 tests per day. We have engaged with businesses in the travel and entertainment sectors in the quarter, and working with partners to support a safe return of students to the classroom. We're also collaborating with the CIC Health, Ginkgo Bioworks and Battelle Memorial Institute, to make testing easy, fast and affordable for school systems and other group settings across the country.We continue to make progress on our two-prone strategy to accelerate growth and drive operational excellence. And here are some highlights from the certain quarter. We continue to execute on our M&A strategy. In June, we announced the completion of our acquisition of an outreach laboratory services business of Mercy Health, one of the nation's most highly integrated, multi-state healthcare systems with providers and patients in Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri and Oklahoma. With this acquisition, we are on our way to grow our base business revenues approximately 2% from accretive strategic acquisitions this year, and with additional M&A opportunities in the second half of the year.We continue to grow our health plan business to make progress in the quarter with value-based programs with United UnitedHealthcare and Anthem. Our volumes to these health plans are growing faster than the Company average. We have also invested in additional employee headcount to better support these important relationships.During the quarter, we were also pleased to renew our long-standing contractual relationship with one of our largest health plan customers, Aetna. We remained a preferred laboratory provider and partner of Aetna's network. In addition, for the first time in over a decade, Quest is one of the Highmark Delaware's in-network non-hospital affiliated preferred labs, serving more than 450,000 members. It's good to be back in the market competing on the basis of quality, service and value.We're helping all of us bee focus on healthcare's AAA of improving population health, enhancing the patient experience and reducing costs. And toward that end, we are launching a new campaign designed to remind customers of the value that Quest brings to healthcare. Our Powering Affordable Care campaign speaks about our leadership in clinical innovation, our ability to enable better clinical outcomes through quality, speed and accuracy of test results, our improved patient experience with accessible easy to use patient resources, and finally, our ability to reduce costs of care.Base consumer-initiated testing revenues continued to grow in the quarter. Today, more than 17 million patients have an account on a MyQuest app and patient portal, with nearly 100,000 patients are enrolling each week. And then finally, in advanced diagnostics, we're pleased to see a full recovery in the growth drivers we're investing in which we discussed at our recent Investor Day and are tracking to accelerate growth.Now turning to our second strategy. We made progress driving operational excellence. Ron is scheduled to complete the full transition to our new flagship laboratory in Clifton, New Jersey, next month. This highly automated facility is consolidated testing previously performed in Peterborough, Baltimore and Philadelphia. There continues to be intense effort and energy around our Invigorate productivity initiatives, and we are on track to deliver our targeted 3% improvement across the business. We are focused on getting paid for what we do and that made steady progress in reducing payer denials, also patient concessions for our base revenues were down in the second quarter to 2019 levels, driven by a focus on collection improvements.One positive outcome of the pandemic has been the patient and physician acceptance of the digitization of our experience. We are more customer-focused and efficient today with more self-serve options for customers, and we have moved a greater percentage of the audience to digital paperless transactions.Now, I'd like to turn it over to Mark to provide more details on our financial performance and our outlook for the remainder of 2021. Mark?Mark J. Guinan -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Steve. In the second quarter, consolidated revenues were $2.55 billion, up approximately 40% versus the prior year. Revenues for diagnostic information services grew 40.2% compared to the prior year, which reflected the strong recovery in our base testing revenue, slightly offset by lower revenue from COVID-19 testing services versus the second quarter of last year.Compared to 2019, our basis DIS revenue grew nearly 5% in the second quarter, and it was up more than 1% excluding acquisitions. Volume measured by the number of acquisitions increased 45.2% versus the prior year, with acquisitions contributing approximately 5%. Compared to our second quarter 2019 baseline, total base testing volumes increased nearly 7%. Excluding acquisitions, total base testing volumes grew approximately 2%, and benefited from new PLS contracts that have ramped up over the last year.Importantly, compared to our 2019 baseline, our base testing volumes were nearly fully recovered in June. However, as Steve noted earlier, the geographic recovery continues to be somewhat uneven, with positive growth across most of the US, except in the Northeast, which remains below the 2019 baseline. With that said, we continue to see a steady recovery in the Northeast.COVID-19 testing volumes continue to decline as expected in Q2, in line with broader trends across the industry. We resulted in approximately 5.2 million molecular tests and nearly 700,000 serology tests in the second quarter. COVID-19 testing volumes stabilized over the last several weeks and we averaged approximately 43,000 COVID-19 molecular tests and 7000 serology tests per day in the last two weeks of June. Revenue per requisition declined 3.6% versus the prior year, driven largely by recent PLS wins and acquisitions. Combined, these two factors, amounting to a decline of nearly 5% in revenue per req in the quarter. Unit price headwinds remained modest and in line with expectations.Reported operating income in the second quarter was $533 million, or 20.9% of revenues, compared to $283 million, or 15.5% of revenues last year. On an adjusted basis, operating income in Q2 was $584 million, or 22.9% of revenues compared to $294 million, or 16.1% of revenues last year. The year-over-year increase in operating margin was driven by the strong revenue growth in the second quarter, due primarily to the ongoing recovery in our base business.Reported EPS was $4.96 in the quarter compared to a $1.36 a year ago. The second quarter of 2021 benefited from the gain on the sale of our minority ownership interest in Q Squared Solutions in April. Adjusted EPS was $3.18 compared to $1.42, last year. Cash provided by operations was $1.2 billion through June year-to-date versus $602 million in the same period last year, which included $65 million from the CARES Act funding that we eventually returned to the government later in 2020.Turning to guidance, we have established our full-year 2021 outlook as follows. Revenue is expected to be between $9.54 billion and $9.79 billion, an increase of approximately 1% to 4% versus the prior year. Reported EPS expected to be in a range of $11.48 and $12.18, and adjusted EPS to be in a range of $10.65 and $11.35. Cash provided by operations is expected to be at least $1.9 billion, and capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $400 million.Before concluding, I'll briefly review some assumptions embedded in our outlook for the remainder of 2021. Our outlook continues to assume a decline in clinical demand for COVID-19 molecular testing throughout the back half of the year. Return to life testing, such as the K-12 school testing program could partially offset declining clinical demand later in the year.Reimbursement from clinical COVID-19 molecular testing continues to hold relatively steady. We currently expect this trend to continue, assuming the public health emergency is extended throughout 2021. However, average reimbursement is likely to trend lower in the second half, as our mix of COVID-19 molecular volume shifts from clinical diagnostic testing to return to life surveillance testing.As you consider the EPS outlook we have shared today, keep in mind the following. At our Investor Day in March, we discussed making approximately $75 million in targeted investments to support our long-term strategies to accelerate growth. These investments are ramping with $50 million expected to fall in the second half. We also continue to incur expenses to comply with CDC guidelines, address supply chain challenges and maintain staffing levels to ensure high levels of service and quality as the base business recovers faster than expected. We forecast these expenses to be approximately $30 million in the back half of the year.Finally, the low end of our outlook assumes an average of at least 20,000 COVID-19 molecular tests per day, and 3,000 serology tests per day. It also assumes low-single-digit revenue growth in our base business in the second half of '21 versus 2019. The midpoint of our guidance assumes slightly stronger COVID-19 molecular testing volumes and a modestly faster recovery of the base business. And the high end of our guidance assumes both a greater level of COVID-19 testing and a strong continued recovery in the base business.I will now turn it back to Steve.Stephen H. Rusckowski -- Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and PresidentThanks, Mark. So to summarize, we had another strong quarter with a faster than expected recovery in our base business. We are well-positioned to continue our momentum and support the return to healthcare in the coming months. And then finally, I'd like to thank all Quest employees who continue to serve the needs of people who rely on Quest every day.Now, we'll be happy to take any of your questions. Operator?