  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to SiriusXM second-quarter 2021 financial and operating results conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. A question and answer session will be conducted following the presentation. [Operator instructions] At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Hooper Stevens, senior vice president, investor relations and finance. Mr. Stevens, please go ahead.Hooper Stevens -- Head-Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to SiriusXM's second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Today, we will have prepared remarks from Jennifer Witz, our chief executive officer; and Sean Sullivan, our chief financial officer. Scott Greenstein, our president and chief content officer, will join Jennifer and Sean to take your questions. I would like to remind everyone that certain statements made during the call might be forward-looking statements as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These and all forward-looking statements are based upon management's current beliefs and expectations and necessarily depend upon assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For more information about those risks and uncertainties, please view SiriusXM's SEC filings and today's earnings release.We advise listeners to not rely unduly on forward-looking statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them. As we begin, I would like to remind our listeners that today's results will include discussions about both actual results and adjusted results. All discussions of adjusted operating results exclude the effects of stock-based compensation and certain purchase price accounting adjustments. With that, I'll turn it over to Jennifer. Jennifer Witz -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Our second-quarter results demonstrate remarkable, continued growth across our business, highlighted by 355,000 net new self-pay SiriusXM subscribers, record low churn of just 1.5% and outstanding advertising growth of 82%. Total revenue grew 15%. Adjusted EBITDA climbed 14% to a new quarterly record, and we generated $550 million of free cash flow. We now expect to add 1.1 million net new SiriusXM self-pay subscribers in 2021, marking our fastest annual growth since 2018. Given our strong operating and financial performance in the first half, we are raising all of our financial guidance across the board. In addition to highlighting a great quarter, today, I want to talk about our continued focus on three strategic areas. First, our intention to continue growing and building on our strong presence in the vehicle. Second, our increased focus on engagement and subscriptions outside of the car. And third, our plans to grow our unique advertising platform. Of course, our leading and unmatched content underpins all of these strategic efforts and will play a central role in our ability to deliver on them. SiriusXM's greatest success has come by pairing an easy-to-use service with well-curated content in the vehicle for our subscribers, and we intend to keep winning in the car by driving higher penetration and growing 360L distribution. The vast majority of our subscribers today value us because they enjoy our in-vehicle experience, and most of our listening occurs there as well. Approximately 140 million vehicles on the road today are enabled for SiriusXM, and this continues to climb with a new car penetration rate that reached 82% in the second quarter, up 4 points from a year ago. Our distribution in vehicle continues to grow, seen in recently expanded agreements that make SiriusXM a standard feature in all Jaguar Land Rover and MINI models sold in the United States. SiriusXM is also bringing the enhanced 360L experience to more and more new vehicle buyers with significant volumes already rolling out across nine automakers, including Audi, BMW, Ford, GM, Stellantis and Volkswagen, with more on the way.

 



 We continue to expect approximately 80% of SiriusXM-equipped new vehicles in 2025 to include 360L. Customers love 360L's enhanced feature sets, ease of use and interface. Our research shows that there is an increase in customer satisfaction and likelihood to subscribe when consumers experience these new features. We are seeing some encouraging listening and conversion trends when we isolate for other variables and compare 360L-capable cars to other vehicles. We also see very strong conversion rates among trialers who use the 360L features on-demand, Pandora artist stations and the broader set of extra channels enabled by IT delivery. Although it's still very early, this data is extremely promising. Awareness of new features is key to improved performance, so we are hard at work to improve our targeted, personalized marketing efforts enabled by and tailored to 360L. We expect the usage data provided in these new cars to be very helpful to our content recommendation and to improve the efficiency and relevance of our marketing efforts. Over the long run, there is no reason this will not also improve retention and upsell as well. We believe that further growth in new vehicle penetration and 360L distribution will add to the meaningful share of the year gains that SiriusXM has seen in the car. According to Edison Research, from 2016 to 2021, SiriusXM gained the largest amount of in-vehicle listening compared to any other service. Outside of listening to AM/FM, which is fragmented and shrinking, SiriusXM maintains the dominant share of the ear in vehicle. In fact, our share here is roughly three times bigger than all streaming competitors combined. Of course, we are not satisfied by success within the vehicle alone. We're very focused on growing engagement and subscriptions outside of the vehicle as well. Two years ago, we changed the package structure at SiriusXM to include streaming at no additional cost to almost all of our subscribers. During the pandemic, we opened up our streaming service for free, and we encourage our existing subscribers to stream. We have already started to see the fruits of these efforts. Our research shows that subscribers who say SiriusXM is their No. 1 source for audio outside of the car has doubled in the past three years. Out-of-vehicle listening enhances the value proposition of and overall satisfaction with our service and is a strong predictor of in-vehicle conversion and retention. To date, most of our growth in streaming has come from existing subscribers using the service outside of the vehicle. But we have been putting the building blocks in place to drive incremental subscriptions that aren't tied to a vehicle. We have made major investments to improve the quality and capabilities of our SiriusXM app experience, which we have rebranded as the SXM app, with more updates on the way. We are infusing the SXM app with an even broader range of content, including exclusive programming that is unique to the digital environment. And we are now making meaningful marketing investments to raise awareness of our digital offering. SiriusXM has a history of disrupting audio. As we look to further shape the future of audio, we are committed to growing SiriusXM digital subscription, which will give us an opportunity to take our premium audio content to a much broader audience. As of this month, we will begin allowing digital subscription purchases directly in the iOS and Android versions of the SXM app, making it much easier for consumers to subscribe to our digital packages. As part of the IAP launch, we introduced simplified lower pricing for the streaming music and entertainment plan and the streaming platinum plan, which adds powered, sports play-by-play and personalized Pandora stations. For the first time ever, we now allow listeners to try the SXM app for free with a three-hour preview window before setting up the one-month trial. We believe this functionality will allow more listeners to recognize how our exclusive content is truly unmatched in the streaming space. And let me just add, we actually have variable margins on our digital subscriptions that are as good or better than satellite, making this opportunity all the more attractive. Leaning into digital subscriptions will be one of the key ways we expect to grow our large sub base and one of the best ways to succeed with a younger, more diverse customer base. The third area of focus I mentioned is our advertising platform. The purchase of Pandora in 2019 immediately gave us a scaled ad-supported user base, best-in-class ad tech and an extraordinarily successful ad sales team. In the past 12 months alone, we have generated $1.6 billion of advertising revenue. SiriusXM's large addressable audience, approximately 150 million listeners, makes ours the largest digital audio ad platform in North America, a position sometimes underestimated or overlooked by investors, advertisers and other content creators. To better leverage the scale and drive success for our advertising clients, we created SXM Media, a unified sales organization representing the best in live radio, streaming and podcasting. We also have a full suite of end-to-end distribution and monetization solutions for content creators, publishers and marketers. We are the largest aggregator of premium supply for audio advertisers in the U.S. Our scaled ad network includes a leading podcast advertising network, Midroll, premium exclusive ad representation for other platforms and podcasters, such as SoundCloud and NBCUniversal News Group and significant available inventory via the past and AdWave marketplaces. We have the best-in-class buy and sell side ad tech stack that leverages the SiriusXM-owned audio ad platforms, AdsWizz and Simplecast, which support publishers from large enterprises to individual creators. And SiriusXM also has an incredible in-house audio creative consultancy, Studio Resonate, that many of our customers are using in Hulu creative agency. We are growing off-platform revenue through a host of arrangements with third parties by leveraging our scale, ad tech and sales infrastructure. These media properties, publishers and creators can focus on what they do best, making great content, and we can help them improve monetization. All of our efforts to grow in and out of the vehicle, whether through subscriptions or advertising, have outstanding content at their foundation. To continue successfully shaping the future of audio, we will never lose our focus on delivering high-value content, curated and often exclusive, live or personalized. We continue to add programming for our listeners with new collaborations with talent, media and social brands. TikTok is a perfect example. We are working with the social platform and its creators to enable multiple new audio experiences. That includes Pandora exclusive playlists from leading creators on the platform, a new groundbreaking full-time SiriusXM channel that is expected next month and reairings of Pandora LIVE events with major artists on TikTok. We are already seeing higher engagement of this content from younger listeners. Across Pandora and SiriusXM, we continue to celebrate black artists and culture for Black Music Month with new podcasts, music channels, top programming and events. One great example being Black Diamonds, an original podcast we created focused on the rich history of Negro Leagues Baseball. We continue to approach podcasting with discipline and a deep knowledge base of what works in audio for the long run. We brought in Roman Mars and his team at 99% Invisible, the critically acclaimed podcast that has been downloaded 500 million times. Roman could have gone anywhere, but we are an ideal place for creators to do their best work and monetize it across the largest distribution and promotion platform in North America. Recently, we announced Seth Rogen would do his first-ever podcast with us starting in the fall. Toxic, The Britney Spears Story is the newest podcast from our Witness Docs unit at Stitcher. Three weeks in, the show has been downloaded over 550,000 times, reached No. 8 on the Apple podcast chart and garnered major press around the world. SiriusXM will always offer a wide range of opinions and viewpoints. And as a great example, we recently announced a new show created and hosted by Megyn Kelly coming in September. She joins an array of talent covering the broadest spectrum of political and news programming in audio. Megyn's show represents a unique multi-platform approach. She can interact live with SiriusXM subscribers who will then also enjoy video highlights in the SXM app. And an edited podcast version of the show will subsequently receive wider distribution on SiriusXM, Pandora, Stitcher and other major platforms. To make it easier to understand our offerings and purchase all of this great content, we recently rebranded our subscription plan. And to unlock more value for our best customers, we launched Platinum VIP, our first-ever subscription plan that includes multiple vehicle access plus streaming. This new VIP plan also includes live concert archives from nugs.net, greater access to virtual and live SiriusXM events and an enhanced tier of customer care. For close to two decades, we have transformed the way listeners consume music, news and other content inside of the vehicle. And in recent years, we have been expanding the reach of our services beyond the vehicle. Our hard work and investments are driving a higher satisfaction rate and improved value proposition that we now know ties directly back to strong subscriber growth and churn performance. I'm very proud of this quarter's results and progress on our strategic priorities. And with that, I will turn it over to Sean.Sean Sullivan -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jennifer and good morning, everyone. Our second-quarter results highlight the impressive growth SiriusXM continues to deliver in subscribers, revenue, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow. Total revenue increased 15% to $2.16 billion, led by 82% growth in ad revenue. Although the pandemic impacted the advertising business in last year's second quarter, as a point of comparison, our ad revenue grew 20% compared to the second quarter of 2019. Continued strong performance in our on- and off-platform businesses, including AdsWizz and Stitcher, contributed to overall advertising revenue growth. Adjusted EBITDA increased 14% to $700 million, a company record for any single quarter. Diluted earnings per share were $0.10 or $0.08 excluding $140 million of satellite recoveries tax affected. Our strong financial performance generated $550 million of free cash flow during the second quarter. Free cash flow included $16 million of insurance proceeds related to SXM-7. To date, we have booked $140 million of insurance proceeds, including the $16 million collected in Q2. Against this, we will begin spending this year on a replacement satellite, SXM-9, as well as on our next-generation spare, SXM-10. Turning to our segments. In the SiriusXM segment, revenue increased 7% to $1.6 billion with ARPU growth of 4% to $14.57. Gross profit grew 5% to $996 million, resulting in a margin of 61%. Year-to-date SAAR has been approximately 17 million. Although June SAAR came in light compared to preceding months, consumer demand for new and used vehicles remain strong, and we saw record trial starts in both new and used cars in the second quarter, positioning us well for the back half. Moving now to the Pandora segment. Advertising revenue of $383 million in the second quarter increased 82% from last year and even 25% compared to the same period in 2019. Growth in monetization at Pandora was aided by the addition of Stitcher and our off-platform business centered around AdsWizz. Pandora's ad revenue crossed $100 per 1,000 hours. And off-platform revenue, excluding Stitcher, grew approximately $22 million or 79% compared to the second quarter of 2020, driven by considerable growth in AdsWizz, SoundCloud and AdWave. Bookings remained strong across the board during the second quarter with the largest gain being in travel and tourism. Pent-up demand and an increase in consumer confidence have both contributed to the travel industry seeing one of the strongest surges on record in the second quarter. Restaurant and automotive categories increased spending, and we saw large growth in entertainment driven by the return of the movie business. Pandora monthly active users and total ad-supported listening hours were 55 million and 3.03 billion, respectively. Pandora added 118,000 net new self-pay subs to end the second quarter with 6.5 million total self-pay subscribers. Gross profit in the Pandora segment grew 176% over the second quarter of 2020 or 23% compared to the second quarter of 2019. And gross margin improved 16 points to 37%. Given the Web V decision, we now have certainty on the bulk of our streaming royalty rates through 2025. In the first half of 2021, we returned approximately $965 million of capital to stockholders comprised of $844 million in common stock repurchases and $121 million in dividends. In June, we opportunistically raised $2 billion of new senior unsecured notes with a coupon of just 4%, and we intend to use the remaining cash proceeds in August to call our outstanding 2022 notes. Net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 3.2 times at the end of the second quarter. Our $1.75 billion revolving credit facility was completely undrawn and fully available. Turning to 2021 guidance. As Jennifer mentioned, we now expect to add 1.1 million self-pay net subscribers at SiriusXM with a 300,000 upside driven by strong additions and record low churn. With momentum in both subscriptions and advertising, we now expect $200 million of incremental revenue or $8.55 billion in total. Higher margins and meaningful new investments in long-term growth drive $100 million in upside to our 2021 adjusted EBITDA expectation, which now sits at $2.675 billion. We are also increasing our free cash flow expectation to $1.7 billion based on higher adjusted EBITDA and insurance recoveries net of new satellite spending. We feel very good about our updated guidance and growing full-year visibility. So with that, I will open it up to Q&A. 