
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the First Quarter 2021 Generac Holdings Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Michael Harris. Please go ahead.Michael W. Harris -- Vice President-Corporate Development And Investor RelationsThanks, Alicia. Good morning, and welcome to our first quarter 2021 earnings call. I'd like to thank everyone for joining us this morning. With me today is Aaron Jagdfeld, President and Chief Executive Officer; and York Ragen, Chief Financial Officer. We will begin our call today by commenting on forward-looking statements. Certain statements made during this presentation as well as other information provided from time to time by Generac or its employees may contain forward-looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in these forward-looking statements.Please see our earnings release or SEC filings for a list of words or expressions that identify such statements and the associated risk factors. In addition, we will make reference to certain non-GAAP measures during today's call. Additional information regarding these measures, including reconciliation to comparable U.S. GAAP measures, is available in our earnings release and SEC filings.I will now turn the call over to Aaron.Aaron P. Jagdfeld -- Chairman, President And Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Our first quarter results were incredibly strong as net sales, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS were all-time records for Generac, despite Q1 historically being the low point for the year seasonally for our business. First quarter revenue margins and profitability were all significantly ahead of our previous expectations. The revenue outperformance was very broad-based and was heightened -- highlighted by increased shipments of residential products, primarily due to home standby and portable generators. Home standby build rates were ahead of plan for the quarter, and demand further accelerated due to continuing traction with the Home as a Sanctuary megatrend as well as being driven by significantly higher power outage activity in recent quarters, including the major event in Texas, which also led to a sharp increase in demand for portable generators.Revenue from C&I products also outperformed expectations during the quarter domestically with our industrial distributors, national telecom customers and rental customers as well as internationally, mostly in the European region. Also in terms of profitability, adjusted EBITDA margin came in considerably higher than our previous forecast, driven mostly by greater operating leverage from the significantly higher revenue achieved during the quarter. Year-over-year, overall net sales increased 70% to $807 million and also increased sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2020, which was our previous all-time record. Growth in the quarter was broad-based, led by a dramatic increase for residential products that more than doubled compared to prior year as shipments for home standby generators were much higher due to record production levels.Shipments of portable generators also increased driven by the major outage event in Texas and higher outage activity overall in recent quarters. Deliveries of Chore products and clean energy products, such as our PWRcell energy storage system, also grew at a significant rate as compared to the prior year, and shipments of C&I products returned to strong growth in the quarter. Gross margin expanded 370 basis points compared to prior year, and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 840 basis points over the prior first quarter to 26.5%, which was the highest EBITDA margin reported since the fourth quarter of 2013. Before discussing our first quarter results in more detail, I'd like to spend a few minutes on the major outage event that occurred in Texas in mid-February. This was a very unique winter event with unusually cold weather in a state that represents our second largest addressable market opportunity for home standby generators and highlighted yet another example of the vulnerabilities of the current electrical utility model. This was a high-profile power outage.In fact, the fifth largest event recorded since we began tracking outages more than a decade ago, with rolling blackouts across the state that lasted for several days and impacted over 4.5 million utility customers at its peak. With the backdrop of the ongoing Home as a Sanctuary trend, we believe the outage in Texas was a dramatic reminder of the pain of losing power in today's day and age and further amplify the importance of having power security for your home or your business. Driven by this event, we experienced yet another dramatic acceleration in demand for home standby generators from the already elevated levels, increasing our lead times to approximately 28 weeks for our most popular models as of today. As a result, we have further increased our capacity expansion plans for home standby as we target even higher production levels in the second half of the year through a faster ramp of our New South Carolina facility and further expansion of capacity at our Wisconsin facilities.When combined with the broad-based strengthening of demand across the rest of our business, including a significant recovery in C&I products, which are also benefiting from the major Texas event, we are significantly increasing our full year revenue and earnings outlook for 2021. We'll provide additional details regarding our updated guidance in the outlook portion of our prepared remarks this morning. Now discussing our first quarter results in more detail. Several key metrics that we monitor closely for home standby demand continue to be exceptionally strong and rose even further during the first quarter benefiting from the major event in Texas. The combination of in-home and virtual consultations once again increased dramatically compared to the prior year, with year-over-year appointments more than 5 times higher during the first quarter as compared to the first quarter of 2020.The strength was broad-based across the U.S., with the vast majority of states showing triple-digit growth once again, which we believe provides further validation of the need for backup power given the Home as a Sanctuary megatrend. Activations, which are a proxy for installations, grew again at a strong rate compared to the prior year and were also broad-based in strength across all U.S. regions. The power outage severity environment continues to be very active during the quarter and trended well above the long-term baseline average, driven by the Texas event, but also ice storms in several states, severe storms in the Pacific Northwest, outage events in California and smaller scale rolling blackouts in other states due to severe cold temperatures. In addition, we continue to expand our distribution footprint as we ended the first quarter with approximately 7,700 residential dealers, a sequential increase of about 400 new dealers as compared to the fourth quarter of 2020 and approximately 1,200 dealers higher over the last 12 months, which includes the addition of a number of new dealers in California and Texas.Early here in the second quarter, these key demand metrics for home standby have continued to trend much higher relative to last year as home consultations are running more than double the prior year's level through April. We continue to believe that the ongoing strength in the product category can be attributed to several factors, which are leading to home standby generators becoming more mainstream as homeowners have an increasing awareness of the need for power security as they continue to work more from home, learn from home, entertain from home and shop from home. Now I want to provide an update on our rapidly growing clean energy product offering. The secular growth opportunity within the U.S. market for renewables, energy storage, energy monitoring and energy management remains very compelling and has gained further momentum so far here in 2021. As previously mentioned, shipments of our PWRcell energy storage systems grew at a significant rate as compared to the prior year, and demand paced ahead of our expectations during the first quarter.In addition to the strong demand, key performance indicators for our clean energy-related initiatives continue to show favorable trends. In-home and virtual consultations grew rapidly as compared to the prior year and were very encouraging sequentially as compared to the fourth quarter. System activations, which are a proxy for installations and commissioning also grew at a tremendous rate during the first quarter as compared to prior year, and orders for clean energy products were very strong on a sequential basis during the first quarter, and this strength has continued here in April. We also have had encouraging success further building out our installer network as we've trained and certified approximately 2,000 dealers as of the end of the quarter, with approximately 800 dealers registered on our Powerplay CE selling system. As we discussed during the last earnings call, we have an exciting pipeline of innovative clean energy products, which are expected to come to market throughout the current year.New product launches include deep integration of our PWRcell storage systems with our legacy generator products, the ability to more easily and cost effectively add a PWRcell system to an existing solar installation and the launch of a new purpose-built generator that can be combined with solar and storage to allow an end user to operate independently of the power grid. Additionally, later this year, we expect to launch a new load management system that will be paired with our existing PWRview energy monitoring platform to allow a homeowner to more fully control their power generation and consumption. We believe these product launches will further enhance our competitive position and differentiation in the energy storage, monitoring and management markets as we focus on whole home storage solutions with load management capabilities that provide both the energy independence and flexibility that we believe consumers really want in these types of systems. The solar plus storage market continues to expand rapidly within the U.S., and we are making good progress in building considerable momentum for our energy storage products.Accordingly, we are increasing our full year revenue outlook as a result of higher demand and our expanded distribution in this growing market. We now expect shipments of clean energy products to increase between 75% to 100% as compared to the prior year levels of approximately $115 million, which is an increase from the previous forecast of 50% to 75% growth. In addition, we achieved a second consecutive quarter of profitability for clean energy products during the first quarter, and we expect this trend to continue sequentially for the remainder of the year as we further scale PWRcell system volumes. Recall that in October of last year, we acquired Enbala Power Networks, a leading grid services technology provider, and I'd like to provide a quick update on the progress we're making in developing a road map for integrating Enbala's Concerto software platform into our existing generator and energy storage products. As the market for grid services continues to develop, we believe integrating Enbala's technology will allow us -- will enable us to improve our value proposition to end users with our legacy products as well as allowing us to develop various new revenue streams in the years ahead.These will include the existing software as a service platform that Enbala offers as well as a variety of operational services that enable a more turnkey solution and, ultimately, performance services that could deliver megawatts of power to various potential customers. During the first quarter, we began marketing our initial solutions, which involve our legacy products delivered with built-in capabilities to connect to the Enbala platform. These Enbala-ready Generac assets, known as distributed energy resources or DERs can be available to bundle together to form a virtual power plant or VPP solution. We're excited to currently offer this initial capability with our C&I natural gas generators and, as the year progresses, we will begin to introduce this feature with our home standby generators and our PWRcell energy storage systems. Also, over the last several quarters, the Enbala and Generac commercial sales teams have been working closely together on potential projects with utilities, energy cooperatives and energy aggregators, which has led to a considerable increase in quoting and proposal activities during the first quarter.In addition to the great performance of residential products to start the year, C&I products were also very strong as revenue returned to growth during the first quarter and increased at a strong rate compared to the prior year broadly across a number of markets and geographies as demand continues to recover at a faster pace than we had previously expected. Net sales of C&I stationary generators through our North American distributor channel returned to solid growth in the quarter, with project quoting activity continuing to recover from the beginning of the pandemic last year and once again growing at a solid rate as compared to 2019 levels. This is leading to an improved overall order outlook for the sales channel and, as a result, we're expecting attractive growth during the year. We also are expecting solid growth from the Energy Systems business.This is our industrial distributor in Northern California that we acquired last July, as our investments in integration activities are producing results in this large and rapidly growing power generation market. Shipments to telecom national account customers increased significantly during the quarter as compared to the prior year, and we're well ahead of our expectations. Several of our larger telecom customers have materially raised their capital spending outlook for the year leading us to now expect a substantial increase in telecom shipments during the current year relative to our prior forecast. The catalyst for the additional spending on backup power in this important vertical can be attributed to a number of factors, including the elevated power outage environment over the last several years, the power security mandate in California requiring a minimum of 72 hours of backup power at all tower locations and the build-out of wireless carriers' next-generation networks. The long-term demand outlook for telecom backup power remains very compelling, driven by the increasingly critical nature of wireless communications networks as this infrastructure shifts to the next-generation 5G architecture.Additionally, we gained further traction in the quarter with our lead gas initiatives through increased quote activity and improved project close rates for our natural gas generators that are used in applications beyond traditional emergency standby power generation, including their use as distributed generation assets. This is an emerging part of our C&I business that already had good momentum entering the year. And the major outages in Texas have created additional demand for these products. Shipments of mobile products to national account rental customers were lower during the first quarter, but exceeded our previous expectations as the rate of decline slowed relative to recent quarters, and we expect a return to growth for these products during the second quarter. As we mentioned during our last call, we expected shipments of mobile products for full year 2021 to improve from prior year levels as national rental account customers increased their spending on fleet equipment due to improving utilization and rental rates. Several of our large national rental customers have recently increased their capital spending plans even further.And as a result, we're increasing our outlook for these products as it appears a fleet replacement cycle has begun. We remain optimistic about the long-term opportunity for mobile products with the compelling megatrend around the critical need for infrastructure improvements, which could finally benefit from economic stimulus plans recently announced by the current administration. Outside of North America, we returned to growth during the first quarter with revenue increasing at a solid core rate of 10% compared to the prior year, primarily due to growth in the European region that is recovering from the impacts of the pandemic. While COVID-19 impacts and restrictions are still being felt in several international regions, larger project quoting and overall order activity is recovering at a faster pace than previously expected, leading to a significant increase in our international backlog at the end of the first quarter.As a result, our revenue outlook for the international segment has further improved as we now expect strong growth for the full year, with adjusted EBITDA margin expected to expand considerably year-over-year, benefiting from improved operating leverage on higher sales volumes. Lastly, our International teams continue to make encouraging progress on several important global initiatives around increasing the penetration of natural gas generators for residential and C&I applications and expanding our share in the market for telecom backup power in key regions around the world. In closing this morning, 2021 is developing into a year where our megatrends and macular secular themes -- macro secular themes appear to have significant momentum and are moving in the same direction as we anticipated -- as we are anticipating tremendous growth for our residential products and a significant rebound in demand for C&I products as compared to the prior year. A key focus for our teams is expanding capacity across the business, both within our own facilities as well as ramping our supply chain to enable our ability to continue to scale.Our operations and supply chain teams have been working aggressively to address ongoing sourcing and logistics delays, component availability constraints and the increasing cost pressures we have been experiencing. We have largely mitigated the impact of these issues up to this point, but the situation remains fluid. That being said, we believe we have appropriately risk adjusted our latest guidance to reflect potential disruptions and additional inflationary pressures that will likely continue to materialize as the year progresses. Lastly, I have to give a shout-out to our more than 7,000 employees at Generac that have helped us successfully navigate the pandemic while still providing an incredible level of service to our customers and our partners around the world. The hyperscale growth that we are experiencing is a reflection of their commitment to the execution of our strategy and their dedication to our success. When you combine the strength of our team with our financial strength, we believe Generac is incredibly well positioned to aggressively invest in a number of strategic initiatives to further accelerate our strategy and build out our capabilities as we continue our evolution into an energy technology solutions company.I'd now like to turn the call over to York to provide further details on our first quarter results and our updated outlook for 2021. York?York A. Ragen -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Aaron. Looking at first quarter 2021 results in more detail. Net sales increased 70% to $807.4 million during the first quarter of 2021, an all-time record, as compared to $475.9 million in the prior year first quarter. The combination of contributions from the Energy Systems, Mean Green and Enbala acquisitions and the favorable impact from foreign currency had an approximate 3% impact on revenue growth during the quarter. Briefly looking at consolidated net sales for the first quarter by product class. Residential product sales more than doubled to $542.1 million as compared to $257.6 million in the prior year, representing a 110% increase. Also, residential products improved 9% on a sequential basis as compared to the fourth quarter of 2020, benefiting from the significant backlog for home standby generators entering 2021, which is in contrast to the normal seasonally lower volumes experienced during the first quarter that have averaged a 26% sequential decline over the past five years.As Aaron already discussed in detail, home standby generator sales continue to experience robust year-over-year growth, which more than doubled during the first quarter as we made further progress increasing production levels for these products. Portable generators also experienced dramatic growth versus the prior year due to the much higher power outage activity, highlighted by the impact from the major event in Texas. In addition to this strength, shipments of PWRcell energy storage systems also grew at a significant rate as compared to the prior year, as the solar plus storage market in the U.S. continues to expand and as we build out our capabilities selling into the clean energy space. Lastly, shipments of Chore products were also much higher during the quarter, in part due to the Home as a Sanctuary trend continuing to positively impact demand for outdoor power equipment. Commercial and industrial product net sales for the first quarter of 2021 increased 18% to $202.4 million as compared to $172.1 million in the prior year quarter. This represents a return to growth for C&I products for the first time since the third quarter of 2019, with the previous four quarters being negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.The strength in shipments was due to broad-based growth across a number of markets and geographies as demand is recovering at a faster pace than previously expected, both domestically and internationally in the following areas. Domestically, the growth was driven by a substantial increase in shipments to telecom national account customers due to capital spending, further improving for these customers as they continue to harden their wireless networks. Also contributing to the increase was solid growth with our industrial distributors as well as an increase in other project opportunities as we gain traction with our lead gas initiatives. Internationally, the increase in C&I products, as previously mentioned, was primarily due to an increase in market activity, mostly in the European region, that is recovering from the impacts of the pandemic, which began during the first quarter of last year. Net sales for the other products and services category, primarily made up of aftermarket service parts, product accessories, extended warranty revenue, remote monitoring subscription revenue and other service offerings, increased 36% to $62.9 million as compared to $46.2 million in the first quarter of 2020.There was an approximate 7% benefit to net sales during the quarter from the impacts of the Energy Systems and Enbala acquisitions and favorable foreign currency. In addition, we experienced very strong growth in aftermarket service parts as a result of the higher level of power outage activity in recent quarters, a larger and growing installed base of our products also contributed to the increase versus prior year. Gross profit margin improved 370 basis points to 39.9% compared to 36.2% in the prior year first quarter. Operating expenses increased $23.2 million or 21.2% as compared to the first quarter of 2020, but declined 610 basis points as a percentage of revenue, excluding intangible amortization due to the substantially higher sales volumes in the current year quarter. As a result, adjusted EBITDA before deducting for noncontrolling interests, as defined in our earnings release, was an all-time record of $214.2 million or a very strong 26.5% of net sales as compared to $86 million or 18.1% of net sales in the prior year.This substantial 840 basis point improvement in EBITDA margin was driven by the significant gross margin expansion during the quarter due to favorable sales mix, improved pricing and favorable overhead absorption, coupled with improved leverage of fixed operating expenses on the much higher sales volumes and tight cost control. Note, the favorable impact to margins during the first quarter were partially offset by the onset of higher input costs, primarily relating to higher commodities, currencies, labor, freight and logistics costs, and these are expected to have more of an impact on properly starting in the second quarter. I will now briefly discuss financial results for our two reporting segments. Domestic segment sales increased a robust 84% to $693 million as compared to $376 million in the prior year quarter, with the impact of acquisitions contributing approximately 2% of the revenue growth for the quarter. Adjusted EBITDA for the segment was $207.1 million, representing a very healthy 30% margin as compared to $82.8 million in the prior year or 22% of net sales.International segment sales increased 15% to $115 million as compared to $100 million in the prior year quarter. Core sales, which excludes the favorable impact of currency, increased approximately 10% compared to the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA for the segment before deducting for noncontrolling interest was $7.1 million or 6.2% of net sales as compared to $3.3 million or 3.3% of net sales in the prior year. Now switching back to our financial performance for the first quarter of 2021 on a consolidated basis. As disclosed in our earnings release, GAAP net income for the company in the quarter was $149 million as compared to $44.5 million for the first quarter of 2020. GAAP income taxes during the current year first quarter were $35.4 million or an effective tax rate of 19.1% as compared to $9.4 million or an effective tax rate of 17.9% for the prior year. The increase in effective tax rate was primarily due to the significant increase in the mix of domestic pre-tax income in the current year, which is taxed at an approximate 25% statutory rate. Diluted net income per share for the company on a GAAP basis was $2.33 for the first quarter of 2021 compared to $0.68 in the prior year. Adjusted net income for the company, as defined in our earnings release, was $152.7 million in the current year quarter or $2.38 per share, which is also an all-time record.This compares to adjusted net income of $55.1 million in the prior year or $0.87 per share. Cash income taxes for the first quarter of 2021 were $37.9 million as compared to $7.3 million in the prior year quarter. The current year reflects an expected cash income tax rate of approximately 20.5% for the full year 2021, which is at the lower end of the previously expected range of 20.5% to 21.5% for 2021. This compares to the prior year rate of 14% that was anticipated in the first quarter of the prior year. The increase in the current year cash tax rate versus prior year is primarily due to the significant increase in domestic pre-tax income, which is taxed at a higher statutory rate. Cash flow from operations was robust at $152.5 million as compared to $11.3 million in the prior year first quarter, and free cash flow, as defined in our earnings release, was $125.8 million as compared to a negative $1 million in the same quarter last year. Both operating and free cash flow represented seasonal records for the first quarter of a year.The substantial increase in cash flow was primarily due to higher net income and a lower level of working capital investment in the current year quarter, partially offset by higher capital expenditures, which included the new facility in Trenton, South Carolina. Before discussing our updated outlook for 2021, I wanted to comment briefly on our healthy liquidity position at the end of the first quarter of '21, which allows us to confidently operate our business and accelerate our strategy. As of March 31, 2021, we had over $1 billion of liquidity comprised of $745 million of cash on hand and $300 million of availability on our ABL revolving credit facility, which matures in June of 2023. Also, total debt outstanding at the end of the first quarter was $872 million, net of unamortized original issue discount and deferred financing costs. Our gross debt leverage ratio at the end of the first quarter was only 1.2 times on an as reported basis. In addition, our term loan doesn't mature until December 2026. We do not have any required principal payments on this facility until the maturity date, and it has a low cost of debt of LIBOR plus 175 basis points.We also have interest rate swap arrangements that fix our interest rate exposure on approximately $500 million of this debt through the maturity date of December 2026. Further enhancing this attractive capital structure is our strong cash flow profile with free cash flow over the last 12 months of $554 million. I'd now like to provide some additional details on our increased outlook for the full year 2021. As Aaron highlighted earlier, we are significantly increasing our full year revenue and earnings outlook for 2021. The major outages in Texas have led to an acceleration in demand and backlog for home standby generators. And as a result, our operations team has further increased their capacity expansion plans, and this is leading to a significant increase in the shipment outlook for these products for the full year 2021. The Texas outages also had a notable impact on portable generator shipments and, with an active sell-through at retail, we are increasing our outlook for these products as well. Also contributing to the improved outlook is higher demand for our PWRcell energy storage systems as we continue to make further progress in building our distribution partners in the clean energy market.The outlook for C&I products has also improved considerably with a significant pickup demand for telecom national account customers, stronger outlook for domestic industrial distributors, traction with certain projects and beyond standby applications, a further recovery in demand for mobile products and an improved outlook for C&I products within the international markets. As a result of these incrementally positive end market trends, we are increasing our full year 2020 net sales guidance to now be approximately 40% to 45% growth compared to the prior year, which includes only approximately 2% of favorable impact from acquisitions and foreign currency. This is an increase from the previous as reported guidance of 25% to 30%. At the midpoint of the range, this updated sales growth guidance would result in a year-over-year increase in net sales of over $1 billion. This revenue outlook now assumes shipments of residential products increased at a very robust rate of over 50% as compared to the prior year. Revenue for C&I products is now expected to rebound at an even stronger rate as compared to the softer prior year comparison, a rate approximately in the mid-20% range.Importantly, this guidance assumes a level of power outages in line with the longer-term baseline average for the remainder of the year. Consistent with our historical approach, this outlook does not assume the benefit of another major power outage event in the second half of the year. Given the additional capacity expansion for home standby generators that is targeted to increase as the year progresses, we are now expecting the seasonality for revenue in 2021 to be a bit more weighted toward the second half of the year, with sales in the first half being approximately 47% weighted and sales in the second half being approximately 53% weighted. Updating our margin outlook for the full year 2021. As we've discussed, there continues to be significant cost pressures, ongoing logistics delays and various capacity constraints in several areas across the supply chain, which are resulting in higher input costs relative to our previous guidance, including rising commodities, foreign currency headwinds, increased logistics costs, additional tariffs and higher wages.Furthermore, we still expect these inflationary cost pressures, together with new facility start-up costs, to be offset by favorable sales mix, pricing and cost reduction initiatives across the organization through our profit enhancement program. As a result, we expect gross margins for the full year 2021 to expand approximately 50 basis points as compared to the prior year. In addition, we continue to make operating expense investments to scale the business, support innovation and drive future revenue growth into new and existing markets. However, due to the much higher anticipated sales volumes, we should experience improved leverage on our operating expenses relative to previous guidance. As a result of these factors, adjusted EBITDA margins before deducting for noncontrolling interests are now expected to be approximately 24.5% to 25.5%, which is an increase from the 24% to 25% previously expected and an expansion from the 23.5% margin in the prior year. From a seasonality perspective, we now expect adjusted EBITDA margins during the second and third quarters to be moderately lower relative to the first quarter, primarily due to the impact of rising input costs.However, we believe this impact will be temporary with adjusted EBITDA margins forecasted to improve in the fourth quarter back to first quarter levels, as the rising cost pressures are anticipated to be offset by more favorable mix, additional pricing and cost reduction initiatives that are expected to be realized toward the end of the year. Operating and free cash flow generation for the full year '21 is expected to remain strong with the conversion of adjusted net income to free cash flow still anticipated to be approximately 90%. Our GAAP effective tax rate is now expected to be between 22.5% to 23.5%, which is slightly lower as compared to the 23.5% to 24.5% previously expected. Our capital expenditures for 2021 as a percentage of forecasted net sales are still projected to be in the previous guidance range of between 2.5% to 3%. Although with a much higher revenue outlook, this represents an increase in absolute dollar investment compared to our prior expectations, primarily due to additional capacity expansion. The remaining guidance items provided in our previous earnings call are not expected to change. This concludes our prepared remarks.At this time, we'd like to open up the call for questions.