  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Wena, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to PayPal Holdings earnings conference call for the second-quarter 2021. [Operator instructions] I would now like to introduce your host for today's call, Ms. Gabrielle Rabinovitch, vice president, corporate finance and investor relations. Please go ahead.Gabrielle Rabinovitch -- Vice President, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations Thank you, Wena. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us. Welcome to PayPal's earnings conference call for the second quarter of 2021. Joining me today on the call are Dan Schulman, our president and CEO; and John Rainey, our chief financial officer and EVP, global customer operations. We're providing a slide presentation to accompany our commentary. This conference call is also being webcast, and both the presentation and call are available on our investor relations website. In discussing our company's performance, we will refer to some non-GAAP measures. You can find the reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the presentation accompanying this conference call.Management will make forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include our guidance for the third-quarter and full-year 2021. Our actual results may differ materially from these statements. You can find more information about risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our results in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC and available on our investor relations website. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of today's date, July 28, 2021. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update this information. With that, let me turn the call over to Dan. Dan Schulman -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Gabrielle. And thanks, everyone, for joining us today. I'm pleased to say that on the heels of a record year, our Q2 results once again reflect some of the best performance in our history on both an absolute and a relative basis. It is now clear that customers around the world have embraced all forms of digital payments. Even in regions where in-person activities are returning toward pre-pandemic levels, in this new normal, PayPal serves as an essential and trusted platform for both consumers and merchants, across all forms of commerce, payments and basic financial services. As a result, we hit a new milestone in Q2 surpassing $300 billion of TPV for the first time in our history, growing 40% on a spot basis to $311 billion with an annualized run rate of approximately $1.25 trillion. This is even more notable given that eBay's TPV on our platform declined by 37%. eBay exited the quarter at under 4% of our volume, and we expect their TPV will approach 2.5% of our total volumes by year-end. Excluding eBay, our volumes grew by a remarkable 48% on a spot basis. Our active accounts now exceed 400 million, up 16% and to 403 million. We added 11.4 million net new active accounts in the quarter, including an additional 1.5 million merchant accounts. That brings our total merchant count to 32 million. We still expect to end the year at the higher end of our previous guidance of 52 million to 55 million net new active accounts. Transactions in the quarter grew by 27% to $4.74 billion. And even as our net new actives continue to show strong growth, our transactions per active account accelerated 11% in the quarter to 43.5 times as our consumers engage more frequently across our growing suite of services. We grew our revenues by 19% to $6.4 billion. This growth comes even as we lap strong results from last year and absorbed 811 basis points of revenue pressure from eBay, as their revenues on our platform declined 51% in Q2. Excluding eBay, our revenues grew at approximately 32%. We now expect that eBay will be essentially 100% complete with their migration to managed payments by the end of the third quarter. We are maintaining our full-year guidance despite the fact that this accelerated ramp puts an additional 100 basis points of revenue pressure in 2021. The good news is that this pressure begins to ease in Q4 and, obviously, positions us for accelerated revenue growth in 2022. Finally, we delivered non-GAAP EPS of $1.15, even as we continue to invest heavily in our growth initiatives. Venmo continued its strong performance in Q2 with $58 billion in TPV, up 58% year over year, with over 76 million active accounts. Revenue growth accelerated to almost 70% in Q2, our highest growth rate in the past year, fueled by Venmo's product diversification strategy. More than 500,000 customers have established new business profiles on Venmo with more than 300,000 created in Q2 alone. Pay with Venmo revenues grew by 183% year over year. We're also seeing strong adoption and trading of crypto on Venmo. In this quarter, we expanded the Venmo value proposition to allow merchants and consumers to pay for goods and services and receive buyer and seller protections for commerce transactions. This has been a very successful feature on PayPal's P2P services, and we expect it will be widely adopted on Venmo. I'm pleased to report that the initial version of our new consumer wallet super app is code complete, and we are now beginning to slowly ramp. In the next several months, we plan to be fully ramped in the U.S. with a host of products and services across payments, basic consumer financial services and commerce and shopping tools launching every quarter. New features will include high-yield savings, early access to direct deposit funds, new and improved bill pay functionality, messaging capabilities outside of P2P to enable family and friend communications, as well as additional crypto capabilities and customized deals and offers. Each wallet will be unique, driven by our advanced AI and machine learning capabilities in order to enhance each customer's experiences and opportunities. As I previously mentioned, 32 million merchants now rely on PayPal. They trust that our scale, security, tools and resources will help them to grow their businesses in today's rapidly emerging digital economy. PayPal is the only payments company to offer features like global seller protection and fraud prevention services at no additional cost. We are one of a few payments companies to allow consumers to use cryptocurrency as a funding source to check out on our platform. Our Buy Now, Pay Later offering comes at no additional cost to merchants, while boosting their conversion rates and increasing cart sizes by 39%. And we continue to expand our product differentiation through recent acquisitions like Chargehound and Happy Returns that will drive additional value to both consumers and merchants post a sales transaction. Our announced pricing adjustments in the U.S. align our pricing with the value we deliver while giving us flexibility to aggressively compete in full stack processing and at point-of-sale checkout. We continue to see strong demand for our in-store services with approximately 1.3 million merchants now accepting our QR codes and continued momentum and excitement across our large enterprise merchants. In fact, every 20 seconds, a new merchant signs up to use our QR codes. It's also very encouraging to see that consumers who use our QR codes, spend more TPV, in fact, 19% more TPV on the PayPal platform. Our in-store efforts will no doubt be a multiyear journey, but these trends reinforce our conviction to be a seamless omni-channel wallet. In Q2, our overall in-store efforts across QR and cards equaled $6.8 billion in TPV, up 39% year over year. Our in-store suite of services continues to expand with the launch of PayPal Zettle in the U.S. As in Europe, PayPal now offers small businesses in the U.S., an integrated commerce solution that not only helps them to accept payments in store with the Zettle card reader but also helps them to manage sales and inventory across their various channels all in one place. Our Buy Now, Pay Later product continues its strong growth and is proving to be extremely popular for consumers and merchants alike. Since launch, we have processed over $3.5 billion in TPV with more than $1.5 billion of that TPV in Q2 alone. Approximately 650,000 merchants have customers who use our Buy Now, Pay Later capabilities, and 40,000 have positioned Buy Now, Pay Later upstream on their product pages. Over 7 million consumers have transacted more than 20 million times with our Buy Now, Pay Later product. Australia is now fully deployed and off to a strong start with additional countries in Europe slated to roll out later this year. Our employees, customers and government officials expect PayPal to be a role model and a responsible corporate citizen. I am proud to say that we are delivering on our commitments to advance social justice and racial equity. Over the past year, we have committed all of the $535 million we pledged toward advancing racial economic equality. And we recently launched a new $100 million commitment focused on women's economic empowerment. These efforts are a direct reflection of our values and our belief that PayPal must be part of a solution that drives a better future for all of us. I'd like to thank our employees for their passion and their never-ending commitment toward shaping a new and inclusive financial services system. We are entering a new era, and we couldn't be more excited to help drive an emerging digital future where all small businesses and consumers can participate and thrive in a post-pandemic world. And with that, let me turn the call over to John.John Rainey -- Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Customer Operations Thanks, Dan. I'd like to start by thanking the entire PayPal team for their continued commitment to serve our customers and execute on our priorities. We're reporting another very strong quarter. Our results are indicative of the strength, diversification and breadth of our two-sided global payments platform. PayPal sits at the intersection of digital transformation and e-commerce penetration. As the largest open platform for digital payments globally, we are uniquely positioned to address the opportunity that these secular tailwinds present. Over the past six quarters, our team's focus, collaboration and resilience have allowed us to innovate at scale and deliver our best performance in company history. Globally, the pace and shape of the recovery varies. As the environment continues to evolve, we are evolving with it to serve the changing needs of our consumers and merchants. During the second quarter, restrictions started to relax across our core markets, and we saw the beginning of a return to normalcy in consumer behavior. Consumers are spending again in verticals that have been severely affected and have become more comfortable shopping in-person and dining out. Merchants are repositioning for the post-pandemic world. Relative to our expectations, which were for reopening spend to closely track vaccination rates, we've seen travel and events volumes return more rapidly. At the same time, in markets that have reopened, elevated e-commerce spending above pre-pandemic levels is ongoing and indicative of permanent shifts in consumer behavior. On a two-year basis, our business performance is remarkably consistent and very strong. Our second-quarter results last year were exceptional. We grew revenue 22%, delivered a 28.2% operating margin and grew non-GAAP EPS 49%. Both the operating margin and earnings growth were the best performance we've ever delivered. It's remarkable that, in the second quarter this year when we're lapping this explosive growth, our business is continuing to perform at a very high level. Our results are even more impressive given the transitory headwinds we're facing from eBay. This year, as part of eBay's managed payments transition, we're absorbing a rapid migration of marketplaces volumes off of our platform. Further compounding this effect is that eBay benefited meaningfully from COVID last year, which makes the comparison this year even more difficult. For context, from 2016 to 2019, the three-year compound annual growth rate for eBay Marketplaces revenue on our platform was approximately 2%. And in 2020, this revenue grew 11%, approximately times faster. Also worth highlighting is that through this period, as eBay's contribution to our revenue declined from 22% to 13%, we've expanded our operating margin 500 basis points. Given the accelerated pace of migration in 2021, there's a more pronounced effect on our operating margin and earnings growth profile this year. At the same time, this is truly a transitory effect on our results, which we now expect to be very largely contained to 2021 with much less of a tailwind to next year. And as we've discussed over the past several quarters, near-term forecasting continues to be complex given the global macroeconomic backdrop, varied stages of pandemic recovery and differing paths of reopening. It's with this orientation and mindset that we head into the back half of 2021. Before discussing our outlook for the remainder of the year, I'd like to highlight our second-quarter performance. Total payment volume grew 40% at spot and 36% on a currency-neutral basis to $311 billion. Our Q2 TPV grew at a two-year compound annual growth rate of 34%, accelerating from 33% in Q1 and indicative of the strong momentum in our business. Versus the second quarter last year, merchant services volume grew 43% currency neutral. A resurgence in travel and events, as well as core payment volumes contributed to this performance. This quarter, eBay had a much greater effect on our TPV than in the first quarter. In Q2, eBay Marketplaces volumes declined 41% currency neutral from last year. This is in comparison to a 3% decline last quarter. eBay represented 4% of our volume in Q2, down 512 basis points from last year. In addition to lapping elevated growth during the pandemic, we saw a faster ramp of the payments transition than what we had expected earlier this year, which resulted in a larger decline in Q2 volume. Given the speed at which we are seeing intermediation progress, our plans now contemplate nearly 100% completion of the merchant migration by the end of the third quarter. This accelerated time frame means that while we expect a similar drag to our volume, revenue and earnings growth in the third quarter, this impact lessens in Q4 and begins to tail off from there. As a result, we will have a much cleaner exit to 2021. Revenue increased 19% on a spot basis and 17% currency neutral to $6.24 billion. Transaction revenue grew 17% to $5.8 billion; and on a two-year basis, transaction revenue grew 22.3% in Q2 versus 22.7% in Q1 of this year. In addition to the consistency of our results, this performance is even more remarkable, excluding eBay. In the second quarter, eBay Marketplaces revenue declined 51% in comparison to Q2 '20 and 27% sequentially. Our revenue, excluding eBay, grew 32%, an 11-point acceleration from last year's already strong second quarter. Other value-added services revenue grew 40% on a spot basis and 36% currency neutral to $441 million. These results were driven by strengthening credit performance and portfolio growth, partially offset by lower interest income on customer balances. In the second quarter, transaction take rate was 1.86% and total take rate was 2.01%. The mix effect of eBay contributed to more than a third of the 37-basis-point reduction in take rate. The blended take rate on eBay volumes this quarter was 3.22% in comparison to 4.1% in Q2 last year. The remainder of the decline was primarily driven by reduced currency volatility in the quarter, which resulted in a lower growth rate in foreign exchange fees, a decline of $122 million from foreign currency hedges recorded as international transaction revenue and growth in bill payment volumes. Bill payment is a vertical characterized by both a lower take rate and an overall lower cost of funding than our e-commerce volumes. Q2 was another great quarter of volume-based expense performance. Transaction expense came in at 81 basis points as a rate of TPV this year relative to 83 basis points last year. Transaction loss as a rate of TPV was a record low 9 basis points versus 12 basis points in Q2 last year. The net effect of credit provisioning on credit losses in the quarter inclusive of originations and reserve reversals resulted in a benefit of $104 million. In the quarter, we had an increase in loan origination activity and ended Q2 with $3.9 billion in gross receivables, reflecting sequential growth of 11%. Strong performance of our loan portfolio, improving macroeconomic trends and the mix of shorter duration originations from our installment pay products resulted in our reserve coverage ratio declining to 14.9% from 21.4% at the end of the first quarter. As a result, transaction margin dollars grew 19% in the second quarter and transaction margin reached 56.8%. I'd now like to cover our nontransaction-related operating expenses. Overall, these expenses increased 27% and represented 30% of revenue. These are higher growth rates than what we've incurred historically, but as I suggested before, we believe that there has never been a more important time to invest in our business as the secular tailwinds in our business have perhaps never been stronger. In Q2, we again invested aggressively in product innovation and our go-to-market initiatives. Sales and marketing increased 68% in the quarter, and technology and development spend grew 23%. On a non-GAAP basis, operating income grew 11% to $1.65 billion, and our operating margin was 26.5%. This includes an approximately 12% or $360 million decline in transaction margin dollars from eBay Marketplaces. Normalizing for the reserve build last year and subsequent release this year, non-GAAP operating income declined 7% and operating margin was 23.9%. And on a two-year basis, the compound annual growth rate for operating income is 29%. For the second quarter, non-GAAP EPS grew 8% to $1.15. This includes an approximate $0.27 per share headwind from the decline in eBay Marketplaces transaction margin dollars. Adjusting for our increased credit provisions last year and this year's release of reserves, EPS declined 9%. And on a two-year basis, this represents 27% earnings growth annually. We ended the quarter with cash, cash equivalents and investments of $19.4 billion. And in addition, we generated $1.1 billion in free cash flow. I'd now like to discuss our outlook for the rest of 2021. Our business is performing exceedingly well and overall, consistent with the outlook we provided on our last call. Given our strong year-to-date performance and our expectations for the back half, we're raising our TPV outlook and reiterating full-year revenue and earnings. We now expect TPV growth to be in the range of 33% to 35% given the strong volume trends in our business. We continue to expect revenue for the year to be approximately $25.75 billion, representing 20% growth on a spot basis. In addition, we continue to expect non-GAAP earnings per share to be approximately $4.70 or growth of approximately 21%. We raised our 2021 revenue outlook by $250 million or approximately 1 point of growth when we reported our first-quarter results in May. We're now absorbing more pressure from eBay than we had previously expected. Our current outlook contemplates an approximately 7-point negative impact to revenue growth for the year. This corresponds to an approximately $0.85 negative impact to non-GAAP EPS from reduced transaction margin dollars. We're pleased that the strength of our platform and the diversification of our business is allowing us to maintain this elevated outlook. In addition, we expect to generate more than $5 billion in free cash flow or approximately $0.20 of free cash flow for every dollar of revenue. Now turning to guidance for the third quarter. This quarter, we are up against our toughest revenue comparisons versus last year. In Q3 '20, we reported 25% revenue growth, our strongest performance for the year. As a result of this dynamic, as well as eBay's managed payments transition, our plans had always assumed that, in Q3, we would report our lowest level of quarterly revenue growth for the year. However, we're now planning for eBay's drag on our revenue growth to be greater than previously expected, resulting from both the accelerated pace of merchant migration in international markets, as well as some additional core pressure, which magnifies this result. For the third quarter, we expect revenue to be in the range of $6.15 billion to $6.25 billion. At the midpoint, this represents growth of approximately 14% at spot and includes about 8.5 points drag from eBay or approximately $465 million negative impact. On a two-year basis, inclusive of this drag, our guidance represents 19% growth. We also expect non-GAAP diluted EPS and to be flat to last year or approximately $1.07, reflecting increased investments to support our growth initiatives and the pressure we're facing from eBay. Our financial performance over the first half of 2021 has been very strong and consistent with the guidance we've outlined at the outset of each quarter. At the same time, the environment in which we're operating, while more stable than a year ago, continues to be very dynamic and more challenging to predict than normal. Adding to the complexity is this exercise of predicting eBay's transition for which we have less than perfect visibility. Each quarter, we've tried to provide our best estimate of the level of performance that we believe we can deliver. Overall, our growth remains strong. And importantly, we continue to see the categories that benefited from quarantine measures and shelter-in-place activities last year maintain higher levels of e-commerce volumes in comparison to pre-COVID levels. Our conviction and our ability to drive sustainably strong performance and in the strength of our franchise has never been greater. This year, we expect to process approximately $1.25 trillion of payments volume. We expect to grow revenue by 20%, more than offsetting pressure to revenue growth of approximately 7 points from eBay and lapping our strongest year with 22% revenue growth. And given the momentum we have in development and innovation, and the pace of scale of the new experiences we're bringing to our customers, we are investing in our business at record levels. Further, last year, we grew earnings 31%. On top of that performance, this year, we plan to grow our earnings by 21%. Importantly, our team has never been more focused or aligned around the shared goal of being the leading digital payments company in the world. Last year was a pivotal moment in our history; and this year, we're building on that foundation and continuing to realize our ambition for greater relevance, ubiquity and impact as a global payments leader. We look forward to sharing more of our progress with you. With that, I'll turn it over to the operator for questions. 