  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Host Hotels & Resorts first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Jaime Marcus, senior vice president of investor relations.Jaime Marcus -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Before we begin, please note that many of the comments made today are considered to be forward-looking statements under federal securities laws. As described in our filings with the SEC, these statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties and that could cause future results to differ from those expressed, and we are not obligated to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements. In addition, on today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial information, such as FFO, adjusted EBITDAre, and hotel-level results.

 



 You can find this information together with reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP information in yesterday's earnings press release and our 8-K filed with the SEC and in the supplemental financial information on our website at hosthotels.com. With me on today's call will be Jim Risoleo, president and chief executive officer; and Sourav Ghosh, executive vice president and chief financial officer. With that, I would like to turn the call over to Jim.Jim Risoleo -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jaime, and thanks to everyone for joining us this morning. We kicked off the first quarter of 2022 with meaningful outperformance and once again substantially beat all consensus metrics for the quarter. We delivered adjusted EBITDAre of $306 million and adjusted FFO per share of $0.39 during the quarter. All owned hotel pro forma EBITDA of $330 million in the first quarter, was just 18% below 2019, and March pro forma hotel EBITDA came in 8% above 2019 driven by significant rate growth at our resorts. Pro forma total revenues in the first quarter increased 10% sequentially over the fourth quarter, while pro forma hotel level operating expenses grew 5%. The increase in revenues was driven by improvements across rooms, F&B, and other departments. Pro forma RevPAR for the first quarter was $167 an 11% improvement from the fourth quarter as rates continue to increase in our Sunbelt markets and hold up at our urban hotels. This is the highest quarterly RevPAR we have seen since the onset of the pandemic, bringing our RevPAR to approximately 18% below first quarter 2019 levels.

 



 Our recent acquisitions, dispositions, and renovated properties continued to contribute to our performance during the first quarter and notably, we had five hotels with ADRs of over $1,000. Preliminary April RevPAR is expected to be approximately 225 to $230 which is up slightly to our March RevPAR. It is worth pointing out that our preliminary April monthly RevPAR represents the first time that our monthly RevPAR is expected to exceed 2019 levels since the onset of the pandemic. However, consistent with historical monthly trends, we expect to see a pullback in May and June relative to 2019 levels. In addition to Maui and San Diego, we are pleased to see urban markets such as New York, Washington, D.C., and San Francisco, driving the outperformance to our forecast. In short, all business segments and markets are trending in a positive direction, and we are very pleased with our performance. Subsequent to quarter end, we sold the 1,780 Sheraton New York Times Square Hotel for $373 million or 28 times 2019 EBITDA. When calculating the EBITDA multiple, we included $136 million of estimated foregone capex over the next five years. In connection with the sale, we are providing a $250 million bridge loan to the purchaser. In addition, we sold a 243 key hotel Eve Miami for $50 million, including $1 million for the FF& E replacement funds or 23.2 times 2019 EBITDA. When calculating the EBITDA multiple, we included $9.5 million of estimated foregone capex over the next five years. This brings our 2021 to 2022 year-to-date total dispositions to approximately $1.4 billion at a blended 17.8 times EBITDA multiple including estimated foregone capital expenditures of $435 million, which compares favorably to our $1.6 billion of acquisitions at a blended 13 times EBITDA multiple. Our 2021 acquisitions continued to perform substantially ahead of our underwriting expectations. Based on first quarter performance, EBITDA from our seven new hotel acquisitions in two golf courses, is on track to meaningfully outperform our underwriting expectations. Looking back on our transaction activity since 2018, we have acquired $3.2 billion of assets at a 14 times EBITDA multiple and disposed of $4.9 billion of assets at a 17 times EBITDA multiple, including $938 million of foregone capital expenditures over the next five years. Comparing pro forma 2019 results for our current portfolio to 2017, we have increased the RevPAR of our assets by 11%, EBITDA per key by 25%, EBITDA margins by 190 basis points, and avoided considerable business disruption associated with capital projects over the past two years.

 



 As we continue to evaluate capital allocation opportunities, our efforts will remain focused on assets that have the potential to bolster our EBITDA growth profile. Turning to first quarter operations. Our total portfolio pro forma revenue was up 10% sequentially to the fourth quarter, driven by 16% rate growth. Transient revenue was up over 1% compared to the fourth quarter and rate was up 18%. Putting this into perspective, first quarter transient room revenue was 97% of first quarter 2019. Transient was again driven by our Sunbelt and Hawaiian hotels, where revenue was up 17% sequentially with a 21% improvement in rate. And once again exceeded prior peak levels for the fourth quarter in a row. Drilling down to resorts, outperformance continued as ADR grew by 48%, leading to a transient revenue increase of 42% compared to 2019. Our 1 Hotel South Beach and Four Seasons, Orlando grew transient revenue over $10 million each with ADR up 60% to 2019. Group business continued to improve at our hotels during the first quarter. Group revenue was up 33% and driven fairly equally by rate and demand growth compared to the fourth quarter. Despite a weak January, we were encouraged by net booking activity in the quarter for the quarter which resulted in 682,000 group rooms sold for the quarter. We saw meaningful improvement in banquet and AV revenue as group business continued to return. In the first quarter, banquet and AV revenue increased by $24 million, up 17% over the fourth quarter. As groups get back to in-person meetings, we expect the trend of higher out-of-room spend to continue. Looking forward to our expectations for group in 2022, we currently have 3 million definite group room nights on the books, which compares favorably to the 2.7 million group room nights we had on the books for 2022 as of the fourth quarter after adjusting for our recent dispositions. Group rate in 2022 is up 4% to the first quarter of 2019, a 300-basis-point increase over the last quarter, with 1 million definite group room nights on the books in the second quarter. This represents 82% of second quarter 2019 actual group room nights. Last quarter, our 2022 definite group room nights on the books represented 60% of 2019 actuals. Adjusted for our transactions and including bookings from the first quarter, 2022 definite group room nights now stand at approximately 70% of 2019 full year actuals. For the remainder of the year, 2022 definite group room night pace is down 14% to 2019, while total group revenue pace is down just 8% to 2019. So Rob will get into more detail on business mix and markets in a few minutes. In addition to delivering significant operational improvements, we continue to execute on our three strategic objectives, all of which are aimed at elevating the EBITDA growth profile of our portfolio. As a reminder, our objectives include redefining the hotel operating model with our operators, gaining market share at hotels through comprehensive renovations and strategically allocating capital to development ROI projects. As a reminder, we are targeting a range of 147 to $222 million of incremental stabilized EBITDA on an annual basis from the initiatives and projects underlying our three strategic objectives. 100 to $150 million is expected to come from potential long-term cost savings over time based on 2019 revenues from redefining the operating model with our managers. We have achieved approximately 60 to 70% of these savings to date. Another 22 to $37 million of incremental stabilized EBITDA is related to our goal of gaining the to five points of index growth at the 16 Marriott transformational capital program hotels and eight other hotels were comprehensive transformational renovations have been recently completed or are underway. Starting with the Marriott transformational capital program portion of our renovations. During the first quarter, we completed the Marina del Ray Marriott and the Houston Marriott Medical Center. This brings the number of completed properties to 12 out of 16 in this program with 89% of the work complete, and we expect to be substantially complete by the end of 2022. The remaining Marriott transformational capital program properties include the Boston Copley Marriott, the San Diego Marriott Marquis, the JW Marriott in Houston, which will be substantially completed by year-end and the Marriott Metro Center in Washington, D.C., which we expect to complete in the first half of 2023. We expect to receive over $11 million in operating profit guarantees from Marriott this year related to these renovations. In total, we expect to invest approximately $750 million on the Marriott transformational capital program assets. As a reminder, we were planning to invest approximately 70% of the $750 million as part of our routine cycle-based renovations. The remaining 30% is ROI-focused capex and includes renovation scopes brought forward from future years to create comprehensive transformational renovations. We believe these renovations allow us to capture incremental market share as is the case at the Ritz-Carlton Amelia Island, where we have seen a RevPAR index share gain of eight points since May 2021. The Ritz-Carlton Amelia Island is now the number one hotel in its competitive set, up from three or four historically. In addition to the 16 Marriott transformational capital program assets, we have eight hotels where we have completed or are in the process of completing major renovations. The completed hotels include the Don CeSar, Hyatt Regency Maui, and Hyatt Regency Coconut Point. The Ritz-Carlton Naples Beach Resort and Miami Marriott Biscayne Bay, are both expected to be completed by year-end and the Westin Denver downtown, the Westin Georgetown in Washington, D.C. and the Fairmont Kea Lani in Maui are scheduled to be finished by mid-2023. In total, we expect to invest approximately $420 million on these eight assets over four years. $157 million of which we expect to spend in 2022. And finally, we are targeting another 25 to $35 million of incremental stabilized EBITDA from four major development ROI projects. During the first quarter, we completed and opened the two-acre River Falls Aquatics Park and substantially completed the 60,000 square foot meeting space expansion at our Orlando World Center Marriott. Both of these projects came in ahead of schedule and under budget. As mentioned by year-end, we expect to complete the expansion at the Ritz-Carlton Naples Beach Resort, which adds to the Andaz Maui Villas and AC Scottsville North, both of which are complete. These four assets make up the current development ROI projects and our third strategic objective and we continue to identify new development projects that will unlock value within our portfolio. In total, we expect to invest $216 million on these four assets. Stabilization of these projects is expected to occur within two to three years of completion, but we are seeing early signs of out performance. In addition to the incremental stabilized EBITDA from our three strategic objectives, we expect approximately $120 million to come from the seven hotel and two golf course acquisitions we completed in 2021, all of which are meaningfully outperforming our underwriting for 2022. In closing, we continue to improve the quality of our portfolio with our recent dispositions, and we are very pleased with the $1.6 billion of acquisitions we closed on in 2021. As the lodging recovery continues to accelerate, we believe Host is very well positioned to capture a greater share of demand given the investments we have made in our hotels, our improved portfolio quality and our balance sheet strength. With that, I will now turn the call over to Sourav.Sourav Ghosh -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jim, and good morning, everyone. Building on Jim's comments, I will go into detail on our first quarter top line performance, margins, and balance sheet before wrapping up with an update on our dividend. Starting with top line performance. First quarter pro forma RevPAR of $167 was the highest it has been since the onset of the pandemic. The quarter was a table of two months, with March RevPAR of $221 more than double that of January. Improvements in the quarter were driven by leisure travel in Sunbelt markets and Hawaii. These markets achieved a first quarter RevPAR of $251, a 26% increase over the fourth quarter. Our urban markets experienced the brunt of the omicron impact in the first half of the quarter, but swiftly recovered ending March on a high note. For comparison, March RevPAR at our urban hotels was $132, up nearly 25% to the fourth quarter of 2021. Turning to transient mix. Holidays in the first quarter drove steady sequential growth in both occupancy and transient ADR with president's day achieving the highest holiday occupancy since 2019, which was driven by are Sunbelt market. Our urban hotel achieved 76% occupancy over Easter, which is nearly double that of the MLK holiday weekend. Holiday occupancy in our urban markets outperformed our Sunbelt markets for the second time since the onset of the pandemic with a rate improvement of 26% over the MLK holiday weekend. Business transient revenue was up 2% in the first quarter with a 4% increase in rate. Despite the impact from omicron and winter storms in January, business transient room night set a recovery record in March, breaking the 100,000 level, and encouragingly, half of those room nights sold were in urban markets. For comparison, that represents a 28% increase over October 2021, which had 78,000 business transient room nights and was the previous high watermark. Providing a little color on a few of our urban markets. In San Francisco, we saw leisure demand starting to pick up in March. Business transient volume was slow for the first two months of the quarter, our hotels saw a significant spike in March from consulting firms and tech clients. In New York, traditionally strong leisure periods have rebounded to levels approaching 2019. While transient demand remains short term in nature, we are starting to see the booking window stretch beyond 30 days. In March, business transient rooms in New York reached a post-COVID high, and as offices continue to reopen, we expect business transient demand to continue to ramp. Early in the first quarter, Washington, D.C. experienced declines related to cancellations, but all of our hotels saw a meaningful improvement in demand in March due to cherry blossoms and spring break. As government offices reopen, we expect business ranging volume to continue to improve. Turning to group. Revenue increased 33% over the fourth quarter driven by 14% demand growth, combined with a 17% improvement in rate. Most of the room night increase came from our hotels in Orlando, Maui, and San Diego, where we saw incentive business from corporate groups come back into the mix. As it relates to overall group business, banquet and catering revenue was up 17% over the fourth quarter and clearly show that groups are willing to spend when they meet in person. Banquet revenue per group room night exceeded 2019 levels in the first quarter for the first time in the recovery, ending 7% higher, with March absolute banquet and catering revenue down just 10% to 2019. Corporate group revenue increased 41% over the fourth quarter driven by 17% demand growth and a 21% increase in rate. Corporate group room nights picked up meaningfully each month in the quarter and ended at 70% of 2019 levels in March. Orlando and San Diego hotels drove most of the demand growth in this subsegment. Association groups also showed steady sequential improvements. First quarter association group room nights increased 26% over the fourth quarter with a 13% increase in rate. Shifting gears to expenses. Total pro forma expenses were down 17% to first quarter 2019, in line with the total revenue decline. Staffing at our hotels remains at 94% of desired levels based on business volumes versus 97% historically. Hotels had paused on hiring during omicron and were unable to keep up as demand surged back in February and March. While our hotels continue to fill open roles, a lag between demand and staffing levels still exist. This has acted as an offset to wages and benefits expense quarter over quarter. Briefly touching on our efforts to redefine the operating model, we have made meaningful progress on evolving brand standards with our operators. Marriott recently announced over 200 brand standard divisions that aim to reduce costs, align standards across brands and segments enable greater operational flexibility and eliminate outdated standards. Some examples include removing alarm clocks, printed compendiums, and premium channels from guest rooms. Our operators have also moved to residential style amenities in luxury hotel rooms and revamped the food and beverage options and hours of operation in many hotels to align with customer preferences. We expect brand centers to continue to evolve as we work with our operators to enhance efficiencies. Taken together, a strong top line and expense controls have allowed our margin to continue to meaningfully improve. Our pro forma hotel EBITDA margin in the first quarter was 31.4%, which is just 10 basis points below that of the first quarter 2019. For comparison, this represents a 350-basis- point increase to our fourth quarter hotel EBITDA margin, which was 27.9%. First quarter margin improvement was primarily a result of strong ADR and cancellation revenue. As demand and rate quickly recovered from a decline in January, March had the highest monthly hotel EBITDA margin in Host's history for today's pro forma portfolio at 41%. Turning to our outlook for 2022. We are still unable to provide full year operational guidance given the continued volatility surrounding COVID. That said, we believe sequential quarterly RevPAR improvements will continue as declines to 2019 diminished throughout the year. We expect second quarter RevPAR to be between $195 and $205 or down 8% to down 3% relative to 2019. This RevPAR range implies an adjusted EBITDAre range of $375 million to $410 million for the second quarter. We expect sustained strength in leisure as well as business transient and group demand to continue accelerating in our urban markets as companies get back on the road and groups get back to meeting in person. We have seen a recovery in international travel, particularly from Canada, Germany, and the U.K. New York remains the top destination market followed by San Francisco and Seattle, and we expect sequential improvements in international demand over the course of this year. Given the cadence of the lodging recovery, it is difficult to provide an accurate forecast for the year. While we expect sequential RevPAR improvements relative to 2019, seasonality and changing market and business mix are expected to lead to lower RevPAR and margins for the second half of the year relative to the second quarter. For reference, the third quarter has typically been our weakest quarter of the year. And as is historically the case, we would expect third quarter RevPAR and margins to be below that of the second quarter. Turning to our balance sheet and liquidity position. Our weighted average maturity is 5.3 years at a weighted average interest rate of 3.4%, and we have no significant maturities until 2024. After accounting for our two hotel dispositions in April, we now have $2 billion in total available liquidity, comprised of approximately $439 million of cash, $162 million of FF&E reserves and a full availability of our $1.5 billion credit facility. Wrapping up, I am pleased to share that the board of directors authorized a second quarter dividend of $0.06 per share on host's common stock, a 100% increase over the prior quarter. All future dividends are subject to approval by the company's board of directors, but as the operational recovery continues, we expect to be able to grow our dividend to a sustainable level. To conclude, we are optimistic that 2022 will continue to build on the strong momentum of the past few quarters. We remain very well positioned to execute on our goal of increasing the EBITDA growth profile and improving the performance of our portfolio. With that, we would be happy to take your questions. [Operator instructions]. 