  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, welcome to the Cognizant Technology Solutions Q1 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn this conference over to Mr. Tyler Scott, vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead, sir. You may begin the presentation.Tyler Scott -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. By now, you should have received a copy of the earnings release and the investor supplement for the company's first quarter 2022 results. If you have not, copies are available on our website, cognizant.com. Speakers we have on today's call are Brian Humphries, chief executive officer; and Jan Siegmund, chief financial officer. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that some of the comments made on today's call and some of the responses to your questions may contain forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to the risks and uncertainties as described in the company's earnings release and other filings with the SEC. Additionally, during our call today, we will reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe provide useful information for our investors. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures where appropriate to the corresponding GAAP measures can be found in the company's earnings release and other filings with the SEC.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Brian Humphries. Please go ahead, Brian. Brian Humphries -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Tyler. Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks to our talented employees, we delivered on our first quarter commitments in what continues to be an intensely competitive global labor market. First quarter revenue was $4.8 billion, up 10.9% year over year in constant currency, above the midpoint of our first quarter guidance of 10.2% to 11.2% growth. Growth was led by digital, which grew 20% year over year and now represents 50% of our revenue. We had another exceptional quarter in digital business operations, which continues to meaningfully outgrow the BPO market reflecting momentum in intelligent process automation and digital native clients. First quarter operating margin was 15%, down slightly sequentially as expected, reflecting seasonality. First quarter bookings growth of 4% was in line with our expectations following exceptional bookings growth in the fourth quarter. On a trailing 12-month basis, we have a robust book-to-bill ratio of greater than 1.2 times revenue, reflecting bookings of over $23 billion. Given a healthy pipeline, we anticipate bookings growth acceleration in the second quarter and for the full year. Over the last three months, I've met employees, partners and clients across four continents. While the global economic environment is uncertain, based on these interactions, I remain optimistic about IT services industry demand for the foreseeable future. Clients are making the shift to digital operating models to become more agile, automated and innovative. They know that it is the only way to deliver customer-centric user experience and hyper personalization, to simplify complex workflows and to build a modern operating infrastructure that's scalable and resilient. Our strategic repositioning enables us to engage more deeply with clients, helping them to succeed and supports our growth trajectory. Our capabilities are in strong demand as digital becomes mainstream. Ultimately, I believe that our scale in India, complemented by our growing global delivery network, will differentiate us as clients seek talent and business stability. Meanwhile, the labor market continues to be attrition, demand supply imbalances and inflationary pressure. I'd like to thank our teams across the globe for their leadership, patience and engagement as we navigate these challenges and execute against our client commitments. Today more than ever, employees demand that we invest not just in total rewards, including compensation, but also in the end-to-end employee experience, their skilling and career advancement. Cognizant has always been known for our investment in our people. And in the last year, we built in this legacy with accelerated skilling and enhancements to our promotion framework. First quarter voluntary attrition fell five points to 26% on an annualized basis or 29% on a trailing 12-month basis. While we made sequential progress reducing voluntary attrition for the second consecutive quarter, we anticipate attrition will remain elevated for the full year and will increase in the second quarter, reflecting seasonality. To mitigate labor cost increases and the investments we are making in our people, we continue to execute against a series of measures including our automation agenda, pyramid and shoring optimization and a deep pricing. Turning to the industry segments. In Financial Services, our ongoing recovery continue with growth of 6% year over year in constant currency reflecting the sale of our Samlink subsidiary in February, continue to make progress repositioning the business toward higher growth and higher value services and solutions with a more focused client set. We expect to pace recovery in banking and insurance to continue with strong demand for digital transformation. One client whose digital transformation journey we've been supporting is ABN AMRO Clearing Bank. We are transforming the bank's IT landscape into a hybrid cloud platform with a focus on security and regulatory compliance. We'll be implementing an end-to-end secure, scalable and compliant infrastructure as a service model in support of the bank's IT modernization agenda. In healthcare, revenue grew 9% year over year in constant currency, with particularly strong growth in Life Sciences. Our investments to modernize the TriZetto product portfolio, which includes the integration of AI and machine learning capabilities continued to pay off. Our clients are responding to our commitment to deliver next-generation platform solutions that help them offer patients real-time insights and personalized care. We're keeping our products cutting edge, building new solutions across the value chain and capitalizing on the opportunity at the intersection of health and digital in areas such as virtual care and telehealth. During the first quarter, we announced our collaboration with Microsoft to deliver a new digital health solution designed to improve medical care. Leveraging Microsoft Cloud for Healthcare, our new solution is the first of several planned offerings that combine remote patient monitoring and virtual health using products like smart watches, blood pressure monitors and glucose meters to collect and communicate patient health data to providers. Wellmark Blue Cross and Blue Shield, a leading health insurer with more than 2 million members is a great example of how we're partnering with AWS to drive digital transformation. Wellmark aims to improve the experience of their stakeholders by accelerating cloud migration and data modernization, all while strengthening their information security. In Products and Resources, we continue to see excellent growth in client success across travel and hospitality and in manufacturing, logistics, energy and utilities. Automation is top of mind for clients like Pacific Gas and Electric, which sought our help to realize their vision for a new digital productivity center of excellence that aims to reduce manual efforts, simplify their automation tools and provide agile and scalable solutions for their business and IT users. To that end, our IPA team helped deploy Microsoft Power platform and simplified our tool sets with Cognizant Neuro, our recently announced intelligent automation fabric. PG&E is now well on its way to saving 1 million hours of work through low code, no code automation. Finally, in Communications, Media and Technology, we saw continued strength in technology, where we've sustained double-digit growth over the last four quarters. I'd like to briefly switch gears now to the future of work, a universal topic among the C-Suite with enduring societal implications. Organizations around the world are deliberating how to best attract, engage and retain employees. The events of the past few years have prompted people worldwide to question their life and work choices, including how and where they work. In the meantime, executive teams are determining how to best nurture company culture and values in the face of today's labor market realities and a hybrid work environment. These socioeconomic questions also intersect with business practicalities such as real estate strategy, one of the many things we are currently reviewing. One of the prominent business themes of our time is the relationship between purpose and work. Purpose encompasses all the values that drive people's choices, actions and attitudes from wider social and environmental goals to professional and personal objectives such as a healthy work-life balance. That's one reason we put so much time, thought and energy into developing and activating a compelling purpose, vision and set of values for our company, which express our commitment to making a positive impact on the environment and the wider society. We continue to advance our ESG agenda, applying our knowledge, portfolio and partnerships to engineer new levels of environmental and social benefits for our company, clients and communities. In April, we announced that we will source 100% renewable energy for all our global offices and facilities by the end of 2026. Sourcing 100% renewable energy supports our goal, and as last year, to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and responds to client expectations that business transition to a low-carbon economy. We also want our employees, clients, partners and other stakeholders to better understand today's Cognizant, which is why during the first quarter, we modernized and reintroduced our brand to mirror the company we've become, the services leader with world-class digital solutions and talent. Our brand now carries the tag line, Intuition Engineered. This is our promise to engineer clients' businesses so they can anticipate and meet their customers' needs with the insight and speed of intuition. As a global company, we will always stand with the right of people to choose a path of self-determination and democracy. Wave humanitarian relief efforts for Ukraine, Cognizant contributed $1 million in grants to several organizations that are delivering food, water, shelter, healthcare and economic assistance. We joined the international community in hoping that a path to lasting peace can be found soon. In closing, I believe we're strategically well-positioned to capture a large growing addressable market and drive profitable revenue growth. A month ago, I marked my third year anniversary leading Cognizant. While we are a company in transition, our evolution has been significant across multiple dimensions. We're putting the company on a strong growth trajectory, and I'm optimistic about Cognizant's prospects as we bolster our portfolio judiciously, to not only build and run clients' technology foundations but also transform their enterprises into modern businesses. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Jan, who will cover the details of the quarter and our financial outlook before we take your questions. Jan, over to you.Jan Siegmund -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Brian, and good afternoon, everyone. Our first quarter results reflect continued momentum within our digital portfolio. While overall uncertainty around the economic outlook has increased, we continue to see a healthy demand environment across our portfolio of services and offerings. Q1 revenue was $4.8 billion, representing an increase of 9.7% year over year or 10.9% in constant currency. Year-over-year growth includes approximately 220 basis points of growth from our recent acquisitions partially offset by a negative 40 basis point impact from the sale of Samlink completed February 1. In Q1, Digital revenue grew 20% year over year and represented approximately 50% of total revenue. During the quarter, we reviewed the scope of our digital ensure alignment across digital skills, growth priorities and our pricing initiatives. This is the first time we have reviewed our definition since we updated it in 2020. Under the new definition, Q4 '21 digital revenue would have been about 49% of total revenue, approximately four points higher than the 45% we previously reported. For this quarter only, we are also providing some additional information to highlight the change in our digital definition. Under our previous definition, digital would have grown 18% in Q1, and represented approximately 47% of revenue. As Brian mentioned, Q1 bookings grew 4% year over year, which resulted in trailing 12 months bookings of $23.4 billion, representing a book-to-bill of approximately 1.2 unchanged from Q4. We believe this book-to-bill provides us a healthy opportunity to support our full year growth ambitions. Moving on to segment results for the first quarter where all growth rates provided will be year over year in constant currency. Financial Services revenue increased approximately 6%. Trends within this segment were consistent with last quarter as positive momentum within our North American banking business and improved performance in insurance were offset by softness in our global banking portfolio. Q1 growth also included a negative 130 basis point impact from the sale of our Samlink subsidiary. We remain focused on investing in our talent and digital capabilities aligned to our strategy. Healthcare revenue increased approximately 9%, primarily organic, driven by demand for digital services among pharmaceutical companies within our life sciences business, around digitization of clinical trial processes and modernization of manufacturing operations. Products and resources revenue increased approximately 15%, driven by double-digit growth across all subsectors within the segment. Segment growth also benefited from recently completed acquisitions, which contributed approximately 500 basis points to growth. Communications, Media and Technology revenue grew 20%, primarily organic reflecting growing demand for data services and our work with leading digital native clients, which has continued to support growth in our core portfolio. From a geographic perspective, in Q1, North America revenue grew 9% year over year. Growth continued to be led by life sciences, manufacturing, logistics, energy and utilities and communications and technology clients. Our global growth markets, which include all revenue outside of North America grew approximately 17% year over year in constant currency. Growth was led by 20-plus percent growth in the UK, where we saw strong double-digit growth within Financial Services, including public sector clients, Products and Resources, and Communications, Media and Technology segments. We also continue to experience strong growth in Australia and Germany, driven in part by our recent acquisitions. Now moving on to margins. In Q1, our GAAP and adjusted operating margins were 15% as there were no non-GAAP charges in the quarter. On a year-over-year basis, operating margin declined by approximately 20 basis points. The largest headwind remains increased compensation costs, including the cost of subcontractors. Partially offsetting these headwinds were delivery efficiencies, slowing growth of SG&A and depreciation of the rupee against the dollar. Our GAAP tax rate in the quarter was 23.3%, and the adjusted tax rate in the quarter was 22.5%, which benefited from discrete items, which we do not expect to repeat. Q1 diluted GAAP EPS was $1.07, and Q1 adjusted EPS was $1.08. Now turning to the balance sheet. We ended the quarter with cash and short-term investments of $2.3 billion and net cash of $1.7 billion. Free cash flow in Q1 was $186 million, representing approximately 33% of net income. As a reminder, Q1 is seasonally our softest quarter for free cash flow, primarily due to the timing of bonus payments. DSO of 72 days increased by three days sequentially and by two days year over year. During the quarter, we repurchased 5 million shares for $444 million on our share repurchase program and returned $143 million to shareholders through our regular dividend. Turning to guidance. For Q2, we expect revenue in the range of $4.9 billion to $4.94 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 6.8% to 7.8% or 9.3% to 10.3% in constant currency. Our guidance assumes currency will have a negative 250 basis points impact, as well as an inorganic contribution of approximately 100 basis points. For the full year, we are increasing the organic growth outlook assumption in our guidance, reflecting strong performance in our digital portfolio and a healthy demand backdrop. However, we are tightening our constant currency outlook at both ends of the range, which reflects our improved organic revenue growth. This is partially offset by a lower expectation of inorganic growth, which we now expect to contribute approximately 100 basis points to full year growth versus 200 basis points previously. Our reported revenue outlook now assumes a negative 180 basis points impact from currency versus 70 points previously, which equates to roughly $200 million headwind in reported revenues. This leads to a revised reported revenue guidance range of $19.8 billion to $20.2 billion representing 4.2% to 9.2% growth or 10% to 11% in constant currency. This compares to our previous guidance of $20 billion to $20.5 billion, which represented growth of 7.8% to 10.8% or 8.5% to 11.5% in constant currency. Our capital allocation framework is unchanged. While we did not complete any acquisitions in Q1, we remain active in pursuit of acquisitions aligned with our strategy. We will stay disciplined as we analyze the acquisition pipeline, and thoughtful, as we assess the best use of capital. For the full year, we expect to return at least $600 million through share repurchases, subject to market conditions and other factors. Moving on to adjusted operating margin. Our adjusted operating margin outlook is unchanged and we continue to expect approximately 20 basis points to 30 basis points of expansion versus 2021. Our outlook for operating margin continues to assume industry supply side constraints and elevated attrition for the remainder of the year. Headwinds to operating margin include increased compensation costs, T&E and return to office costs, which we expect to offset through delivery efficiencies, digital revenue mix, pricing and SG&A leverage and discipline. We currently expect to see some gradual improvement in our operating margin in Q2. This leads to our full year adjusted EPS guidance of $4.45 to $4.55, compared to $4.46 to $4.60 previously, which primarily reflects the FX impact on our reported revenue outlook. Our full year outlook assumes interest income of $25 million and average share outstanding of approximately 522 million, both unchanged from our prior outlook. We also continue to expect a tax rate of 25% to 26%. Finally, we are still targeting full year cash flow conversion of approximately 100% of net income. However, there are several moving pieces that could cause us to fall below our goal. Key factors impacting our conversion rate include the timing of certain payments, cash taxes and higher capex. We remain focused on our working capital initiatives to offset these headwinds for the remainder of the year. With that, we will open the call for your questions. 