
OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to VeriSign's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Recording of this call is not permitted unless preauthorized.At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. David Atchley, Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Treasurer. Please go ahead, sir.David Atchley -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Treasurer

 



Thank you, operator. Welcome to VeriSign's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Joining me are Jim Bidzos, Executive Chairman and CEO; Todd Struby, President and COO; and George Kilguss, Executive Vice President and CFO. This call and presentation are being webcast from the Investor Relations website, which is available under About VeriSign on verisign.com. There you'll also find our earnings release. At the end of this call, the presentation will be available on that site, and within a few hours, the replay of the call will be posted. Financial results in our earnings release are unaudited, and our remarks include forward-looking statements that are subject to the risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, specifically the most recent report on Forms 10-K. VeriSign does not update financial performance or guidance during the quarter unless it is done through a public disclosure.The financial results in today's call and the matters we will be discussing today include GAAP results and two non-GAAP measures used by VeriSign, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow. GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation information is appended to the slide presentation, which can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website available after this call. Jim and George will provide some prepared remarks. And afterward, we will open the call for your questions. With that, I would like to turn the call over to Jim.D. James Bidzos -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, David, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm pleased to report another solid quarter of performance for VeriSign. During the first quarter, we saw increased demand for our domain names across most regions as businesses continue to expand their online presence. During the first quarter, we processed 11.6 million new registrations and the domain name base increased by 2.8 million names. At the end of March, the domain name base in.com and.net totaled $168 million, consisting of 154.6 million names for.com and 13.4 million names for.net, with a year-over-year growth rate of 4.6%. Although renewal rates are not fully measurable until 45 days after the end of the quarter, we believe that the renewal rate for the first quarter of 2021 will be approximately 75.9%. This preliminary rate compares to 75.4% achieved in the first quarter of 2020 and 73.5% last quarter.

 



As we look forward for fiscal 2021, we now expect a domain name base growth rate of between 4% and 5.5%. This updated range reflects the strength we've witnessed in new additions to the base and our outlook for the balance of the year. During the quarter, we continued to deliver solid financial results while maintaining, investing in and evolving our critical infrastructure and complying with high operational standards required by our ICANN agreements. Our critical infrastructure enables us to reliably and accurately provide the DNS navigation service people around the world rely on for commerce, education, healthcare and person-to-person connection. Our financial and liquidity position remained stable with $1.18 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the quarter. Share repurchases during the first quarter totaled $173 million for 876,000 shares. At quarter end, $910 million remained available and authorized under the current share repurchase program, which has no expiration.We continually evaluate the overall liquidity and investing needs of the business and consider the best uses for our cash, including potential share repurchases. Regarding.web, we have been informed that the independent review process panel formally declared the IRP hearing closed on April 7, 2021. Under the applicable arbitration rules, the IRP panel should now issue a final decision within 60 days from that date. As a reminder, an IRP, under ICANN's bylaws, is for the purpose of ensuring that ICANN followed its own policies and procedures when making decisions. Our expectation is that following the resolution of the IRP, the ICANN Board will make the final decision on the delegation of the.web TLD. The updated guidance we're providing today does not include any revenue or expenses related to.web. And now I'd like to turn the call over to George.George Kilguss III -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jim, and good afternoon, everyone. For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, the company generated revenue of $324 million, up 3.6% from the same quarter in 2020 and delivered operating income of $210 million, up 2% from $206 million in the same quarter a year ago. Operating expense totaled $113 million compared to $116 million last quarter and $106 million in the first quarter a year ago. The year-over-year increase in operating expense is primarily a result of incremental and continued operational investments in personnel and infrastructure. The operating margin in the quarter was 65% compared to 66% over the same quarter a year ago. Net income totaled $150 million compared to $334 million a year earlier, which produced diluted earnings per share of $1.33 in the first quarter this year compared to $2.86 for the same quarter last year.

 



As noted in our earnings release, net income for the first quarter last year included the recognition of $168 million of previously unrecognized non cash income tax benefits, which increased diluted earnings per share by $1.44. Operating cash flow for the first quarter was $198 million, and free cash flow was $192 million compared with $180 million and $169 million, respectively, for the first quarter last year. The year-over-year increase in operating cash flow was primarily driven by the increased volume of new registrations and renewals, partially offset by higher cash payments for operating expenses.I'll now discuss our updated full year 2021 guidance. Revenue is now expected to be in the range of $1.315 billion to $1.330 billion. This narrowed and increased revenue range forecast reflects the updated domain name base growth rate expectation of between 4% and 5.5% that Jim mentioned earlier. The operating margin is still expected to be between 64% and 65%. This guidance reflects our expectation of incremental and continued investment in our operational infrastructure and personnel in 2021. Interest expense in non operating income net is still expected to be an expense of between $88 million to $92 million. Capital expenditures are also still expected to be between $55 million and $65 million. The GAAP effective tax rate is still expected to be between 20% and 23%, and we expect the cash tax rate for our 2021 fiscal year to also be within the same guidance range.In summary, VeriSign continued to demonstrate sound financial performance during the first quarter, and we look forward to continuing our focused execution throughout 2021. Now I'll turn the call back to Jim for his closing remarks.D. James Bidzos -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, George. In closing, I want to acknowledge the team here at VeriSign for their hard work in maintaining and operating our critical internet infrastructure, even during the challenges of working remotely during the pandemic. Now we will open the call for your questions. Operator, we're ready for the first question.