  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to the Bristol-Myers Squibb 2021 fourth quarter results conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Tim Power, vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Tim Power -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Alan, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us this morning for our fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. Joining me this morning with prepared remarks are Giovanni Caforio, our board chair and chief executive officer; and David Elkins, our chief financial officer. Also participating in today's call are Chris Boerner, our chief commercialization officer; and Samit Hirawat, our chief medical officer and head of Global Drug Development. As you'll note, we posted slides to bms.com that you can follow along with for Giovanni and David's remarks. And before we get started, I'll read our forward-looking statement. During this call, we'll make statements about the company's future plans and prospects that constitute forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in the company's SEC filings.These forward-looking statements represent our estimates as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any future date. We specifically disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements, even if our estimates change. We'll also focus our comments on our non-GAAP financial measures, which are adjusted to exclude certain specified items. Reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available on bms.com. And with that, I'll now hand over to Giovanni. Giovanni Caforio -- Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Tim, and good morning, everyone. Let's start with our fourth quarter performance on Slide 4. I'm pleased to report we delivered another strong quarter, building on our very good performance throughout 2021. Our commercial results were strong across the portfolio with robust performance in our continuing business, driven by Eliquis and accelerated growth for Opdivo as well as continued demand growth for our new products. The launch of Zeposia in ulcerative colitis is progressing well in the U.S., and we obtained European approval during the quarter. We are pleased with continued demand growth for Reblozyl in ESA refractory MDS and transfusion-dependent beta-thal. And our cell therapies, Breyanzi and Abecma, continue to see significant demand while we remain focused on broadening supply and expanding indications over time. We are advancing our strategy and delivered key pipeline milestones in the fourth quarter. This enables us to help more patients, accelerate the renewal of our portfolio, and support our growth outlook. Let me highlight some key achievements. We submitted applications for the deucravacitinib in the U.S., EU, and Japan, which position us well to grow our presence in immunology. We are excited about the potential of the deucravacitinib as the oral standard of care in moderate to severe psoriasis and various other autoimmune diseases. We are expanding our cardiovascular portfolio and presented exciting data at AHA for Milvexian, which we see as the next-generation anti-thrombotic with a $5 billion-plus non-risk-adjusted revenue opportunity. We presented important updates at ASH on our hematology pipeline. This includes encouraging data for iberdomide and 480, our exciting new multiple myeloma CELMoD agents. These have the potential to replace Revlimid and Pomalyst over time. Importantly, the TRANSFORM data for Breyanzi in second-line B-cell lymphoma showed practice-changing benefit compared to the current standard of care. We continue to see Breyanzi as one of the key growth drivers for the company with over $3 billion in non-risk-adjusted revenue potential. Our strong execution helped drive solid financial performance in the fourth quarter. We reported 8% sales growth and double-digit non-GAAP EPS growth. Our strong cash flow and financial strength provide us with significant financial flexibility. This enables us to continue prioritizing disciplined business development opportunities while paying down debt and expanding shareholder distributions. We also introduced our 2022 guidance last month, and I'll let David speak to the details in a moment. What's important is that we are guiding to growth this year, with low double-digit growth from our continuing business, more than offsetting the Revlimid revenue impact from generics in the U.S. and internationally. Turning to our 2021 execution scorecard on Slide 5. At the beginning of last year, I outlined a number of milestones that we believed would be important to our future, including opportunities to renew our portfolio and grow our business during the decade. I am pleased to report we've made great progress. We returned Opdivo's growth, successfully launched multiple new products and produced key expansion data sets for several assets. This record of execution across the company further strengthens my confidence in our ability to continue to renew our portfolio and grow in the future. We know we must remain focused on advancing our pipeline to accelerate the renewal of our portfolio. And on Slide 6, you can see there are multiple catalysts ahead during 2022. The 2022 milestones include expected approvals and launches for three exciting first-in-class medicines: Mavacamten, deucravacitinib and relatlimab. We believe that all of this have the potential to further strengthen the commercial opportunity for our new product portfolio and support our growth outlook. We expect that each of these assets has at least $4 billion of revenue potential at the end of the decade on a non-risk-adjusted basis. We look forward to keeping you updated on our progress throughout the year. Looking to the future, Slide 7 summarizes our perspective of how all of this comes together to support the growth of the company moving forward. We expect the growth in our continuing business will enable us to more than offset key LOEs through 2025, with continued growth of our in-line brands and $10 billion to $13 billion of additional sales expected from our new product portfolio. In the second half of the decade, with a broad and expanding product portfolio, we will have multiple paths to achieving our growth objective from 2025 to 2029. As we've said, we expect more than $25 billion in non-risk-adjusted revenue potential from the current new product portfolio in '29, with additional contributions coming from our pipeline, including assets like Milvexian and our exciting CELMoD agents. As we continue our journey to renew our business and grow through the impact of LOEs starting this year, I'm increasingly excited about the future of Bristol-Myers Squibb. With that, I'll turn it over to David to walk you through the financials. David?David Elkins -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Giovanni, and thank you all for joining our call today. I'd like to start with our strong top line performance on Slide 9. We closed out the year with another great quarter across our key franchises. Revenues grew high single digits versus prior year, which was driven primarily by increased demand for our in-line and new product portfolios. Now let's turn to some product specifics, starting with Eliquis on Slide 10. Eliquis continued to deliver extraordinary growth, with global sales up 20% for both the fourth quarter and the full year. In the U.S., fourth quarter sales increased 22% versus prior year, driven primarily by total prescription growth of 13%. Internationally, Eliquis sales growth continues to be driven by increased share across all key markets, and the brand remains the No. 1 OAC in multiple countries. Looking forward, the growth outlook for Eliquis remains strong as we continue to grow the oral anticoagulant class and increase our share within the class. As a reminder, the first quarter of 2021 did experience a one-time favorable true-up in the U.S. of approximately $160 million that will not repeat in Q1 of '22. Moving to Opdivo's performance on Slide 11. We are very pleased with the accelerated momentum, growing 11% globally versus prior year. This is driven by strong demand, particularly for our new launch indications. In the U.S., fourth quarter revenues were strong, up 16% versus prior year. Growth was primarily attributable to demand in metastatic indications, including first-line lung, first-line renal and first-line gastric cancers, as well as adjuvant indications with the approvals of adjuvant esophageal and adjuvant bladder cancers in 2021. Internationally, fourth quarter revenues grew 5% versus prior year, driven largely by demand for new indications and expanded access primarily in emerging markets. More broadly, we continue to see uptake of our new launches in lung and renal cancer in Germany and Japan. And we secured reimbursement in Italy and Spain in the fourth quarter. As we look forward, we continue to expect further growth for Opdivo as we secure additional reimbursement for recent approvals. We're in a strong position to continue to grow Opdivo and look forward to additional approvals this year and in the years ahead. Now let's turn to our IMiD portfolio on Slide 12, starting with Revlimid. Fourth quarter revenues grew 1% globally versus prior year and grew 6% for the full year with sales of approximately $12.8 billion. As we enter into the first year of generic entry for Revlimid, I want to remind everyone of our expectations for Revlimid sales in 2022 and beyond. We expect Revlimid sales of $9.5 billion to $10 billion in 2022. Of these sales, we expect roughly 75% to come from the U.S. and the remaining from ex U.S. markets. As we think about generic entry this year, we expect sales variability quarter to quarter based on the timing of how generic competitors fulfill their annual volumes. For the first quarter, our best projection for global Revlimid sales is approximately $2.5 billion. Beyond '22 through 2025, although there's still uncertainty due to ongoing litigation, we view an annual stepdown of roughly $2 billion to $2.5 billion per year as a reasonable projection. Now on to Pomalyst. Global sales in the fourth quarter were up 2%. Sales were primarily driven by demand for triple-based therapies in ex U.S. markets and fewer selling days in the U.S. We continue to expect growth for Pomalyst as treatments move to earlier lines of therapy and more triplet-based therapies are approved with longer duration of treatment. As it relates to U.S. IP for Pomalyst, we are pleased that there is now no outstanding litigation. At this point, we don't expect generic entry in the U.S. market prior to the first quarter of 2026. Now let's move on to our new product portfolio on Slide 13. We are very pleased with the momentum and feedback we're receiving on our new product portfolio. These products contributed over $350 million in the fourth quarter and $1.1 billion for the full year. Let me provide some color on each launch individually, starting with Reblozyl, which generated global revenues of just over $550 million in 2021, more than doubling its revenues over last year. In the U.S., full year sales grew 87% versus prior year, primarily due to continued demand in ESA refractory MDS patients. Demand continued to grow in the fourth quarter. Sequentially, revenue was impacted by onetime favorable inventory build in the third quarter of approximately $20 million to $25 million. Our focus remains on treating new patients earlier in their treatment journey upon ESA failure as well as ensuring physicians titrate the patients up to receive the appropriate dose for sustained benefit. Internationally, we continue to launch in additional countries and expect to continue to do so in 2022, helping more patients and driving additional growth for the brand. Now moving to our cell therapy launches, Abecma and Breyanzi. Abecma generated revenues of $164 million since its launch in May of last year. Revenues reflect very strong demand for the first-ever BCMA cell therapy. As noted in the past, demand continues to be very robust, and we're working hard to expand capacity. We expect first quarter revenues to be largely similar to the fourth quarter. Turning to our CD19 cell therapy, Breyanzi. Physicians continue to recognize Breyanzi's best-in-class profile for relapsed/refractory patients. We look forward to moving Breyanzi up the treatment paradigm in the second-line setting with remarkable EFS data presented from our TRANSFORM study at ASH. And we look forward to bringing this treatment to second-line patients in the U.S. this year. Now moving to Zeposia. Global sales for the year were $134 million, primarily driven by our multiple sclerosis indication. In the U.S., the MS launch continues to go well. Zeposia remains the leading S1P in written prescriptions, and we remain focused on establishing Zeposia not only as the S1P of choice, but also the oral treatment of choice. We continue to be pleased with the progress we have made on patient conversion, with significant decrease in time to commercial therapy. Our early UC launch is continuing to gain traction with a leading share of voice and increased overall volume. Physicians are responding well to the profile, and we're encouraged by their intent to prescribe. We are working on building volume and growing access and reimbursement. We expect to have increased contribution from UC in the second half of this year and expanding in 2023. Internationally, Zeposia continues to gain momentum in MS as the product gets additional reimbursement in more markets and benefited from certain year-end stocking. We are very pleased with the recent EMA approval of UC in December and look forward to securing access and reimbursement for this indication to drive further growth for the brand. Lastly, on Onureg, the U.S., we continue to make progress on establishing the product for patients with complete remission following intensive chemotherapy. Our focus remains on shaping the maintenance segment and increasing adoption and patient adherence. Overall, I'm pleased with our new product portfolio performance and look forward to three additional approvals expected this year. We are launch-ready for relatlimab and mavacamten with PDUFA dates in March and April, and we're on track for deucravacitinib's launch in September. Now switching gears to our fourth quarter P&L on Slide 14. Having just covered sales performance, let me walk you through a few non-GAAP key line items. Operating expenses increased versus prior quarter due to timing of MS&A investments that shifted from -- to the fourth quarter, as noted in October. MS&A decreased versus prior year due to some incremental and accelerated investments to support our business in 2020. The fourth quarter effective tax rate was impacted by earnings mix. And as a result, the strong performance in the quarter, non-GAAP EPS increased approximately 25% year over year. Moving to the balance sheet and capital allocation on Slide 15. We continue to generate a significant amount of cash from operations with approximately $4 billion in the fourth quarter. We ended the quarter in a strong liquidity position with approximately $17 billion in cash and marketable securities. Our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged. Business development remains our top priority to further renew and diversify our portfolio. And we are also focused on reducing debt and returning capital to shareholders. We have executed several business development deals last year, bringing in differentiated early stage assets. We have the financial strength to be size-agnostic, but we are particularly interested in early science and midsized bolt-on deals. As it relates to debt. In 2021, we reduced gross debt by over $6 billion and remain committed to maintaining a strong investment-grade credit rating. Lastly, as it relates to returning capital to shareholders, we recently grew the dividend by over 10%, which was our 13th consecutive increase. Additionally, we increased our share repurchase authorization by $15 billion and plan to execute a $5 billion ASR this quarter. Now turning to our 2022 non-GAAP guidance at current exchange rates on Slide 16. As announced last month, we expect '22 revenues to be approximately $47 billion, representing low single-digit growth over 2021. Growth from our continuing business will more than offset the revenue impact from Revlimid and Abraxane LOEs. We expect key LOE brand sales to be approximately $10.5 billion. And our continuing business, which represents our in-line and new product portfolios, is expected to grow low double-digit and contribute approximately $36.5 billion. As it relates to our line item guidance for the year. We expect our gross margin to be approximately 78% and our total operating expenses to be in line with 2021 expenses, and we project our tax rate to be approximately 16.5%. Finally, also communicated earlier this year, we expect non-GAAP EPS to grow faster than sales and be between $7.65 and $7.95. As it relates to our share count, I'd like to provide a little color as we plan to execute the $5 billion ASR. We ended the year with approximately 2.2 billion diluted shares outstanding. We will be executing the ASR later this quarter, which means we will get a majority, but not all of the benefit on diluted share count this year. Lastly, given this is the first quarter of generic entry for Revlimid, we thought it would be helpful to provide some perspective on revenue for the first quarter. In addition to the approximately $2.5 billion of Revlimid sales I mentioned previously, we are projecting total global first quarter sales to range from $11 billion to $11.5 billion. So before I turn it over to question and answer, I just want to thank our teams around the world for delivering these remarkable results in 2021. These results and our guidance for 2022 demonstrate the financial strength of the business and the renewal of our portfolio, which positions us well for long-term growth. I'll now turn the call back over to Tim and Giovanni for Q&A.Tim Power -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, David. Alan, can we go to our first question, please? 