  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Target Corporation 2021 first-quarter earnings release conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded Wednesday, May 19, 2021. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. John Hulbert, vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.John Hulbert -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on our first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. On the line with me today are Brian Cornell, chairman, and chief executive officer; Christina Hennington, chief growth officer; John Mulligan, chief operating officer; and Michael Fiddelke, chief financial officer. In a few moments, Brian, Christina, John, and Michael will provide their perspective on the first quarter and their thoughts on our outlook for the second quarter and beyond. Following their remarks, we'll open the phone lines for a question-and-answer session. This morning, we're being joined on this conference call by investors and others who are listening to our comments via webcast. Following the call, Michael and I will be available to answer any follow-up questions. And finally, as a reminder, any forward-looking statements that we make this morning are subject to risks and uncertainties, the most important of which are described in our most recently filed 10-K.Also in these remarks, we refer to non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted earnings per share. Reconciliations of all non-GAAP numbers to the most directly comparable GAAP number are included in our financial press releases which is posted on our Investor Relations website. With that, I'll turn it over to Brian for his thoughts on the first quarter and his perspective on our outlook. Brian? Brian Cornell -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. The first quarter we felt is the first step toward was a post-pandemic world and our team and the operating model continued to walk alongside our guests and community, serving them well through another chapter of growth and healing. From our unique mix of categories, there are unmet steps of fulfillment options, our business is delivering what consumers want and need each and every day. The results we delivered in Q1 are nothing short of outstanding. Our sales grew by nearly 23%, making it our fourth consecutive quarter in which comp sales grew more than 20%. Maintaining that pace this quarter was especially notable given that we were copying over a double-digit growth a year ago. Over the last two years, comp sales have grown about 36% and total sales expanded by $6.5 billion in the first quarter alone. This year, sales growth reflected more than $1 billion in market share gains, a clear signal of how relevant guests find our experience even though they have many more shopping options available compared with this time last year. In a quarter, featuring many things to celebrate, I'm most proud of the performance of our stores. With vaccinations rolling out across the country and consumers increasingly comfortable venturing out, we've seen an enthusiastic return in in-store shopping. Guests are happy to come back to our stores because they love the environment we created and invested in over time. As a result, our store comp sales increased 18% in Q1, driven almost entirely by higher traffic and accounting for the vast majority of our growth. Contrast that to a year ago when the channel mix of our business was changing rapidly. With guests leaning heavily into our digital fulfillment options, especially our same-day services in the midst of a nationwide lockdown. A year ago on this call, we were highlighting a digital comp of 141%, driven by growth in our same-day services of more than 275%. These two contrasting scenarios clearly demonstrate the flexibility of our operating model, but they also show how our stores and digital channels complement each other to drive guest engagements.

 



 Even though digital stole the headlines a year ago, our store comps actually increased about 1% in the first quarter last year. And this year, while store sales accounted for most of our growth, first-quarter digital comp sales also grew 50% on top of last year's enormous number. This is the power of "and." Guests go to Target because of our stores "and" our digital options. Not one versus the other. And for us, the distinction between a store sale and a digital sale is largely irrelevant. Because of our unique stores and hub model, more than three-quarters of our first-quarter digital sales were fulfilled by our stores. That means in total, more than 95% of Target's first-quarter sales were driven by our store assets, store inventory, and store team. This store-driven growth is translating long-standing bottom-line performance. Our first-quarter adjusted EPS of $3.69 established a new all-time high for the company. Compared to 2020 when profitability took a temporary dip, this year's performance represents an astounding increase, more than sixfold. If we look back at the first quarter of 2019, this year's adjusted EPS was more than 140% higher, demonstrating how far our businesses advanced in a short time. I want to pause here and thank our team members across the world. They have consistently demonstrated incredible passion, commitment, and focus to serve our guests and take care of each other. I am grateful and proud to serve with this outstanding team and to share the incredible business results they're delivering quarter after quarter. It's also important to highlight how the category mix plays a key role in the flexibility of our model. For instance, with guests venturing out, we've seen an incredible rebound in apparel sales with Q1 comp growth of more than 60%. On the other hand, and as expected, we experienced slower growth in food, beverages, and essentials as we annualized the peak stock of period a year ago. Most notably, we saw continued strength in our home in hard-line categories, which delivered outsized growth on top of very strong numbers a year ago. Christina will provide more details in a few minutes. A relentless focus on operational excellence is another key factor in our performance. This is best summarized by our guest satisfaction scores, which across all of our services, have remained stable or moved higher. Despite record growth, it's now compounding on a two-year basis. This is a clear testament to the diligence of our team and the return on our investments in training, hours, and wages over the last several years. Over those years, sales in our same-day services, order pickup, Drive Up and ship, have accounted for the bulk of our digital growth, and they grew to well over half of our digital sales in the first quarter. Same-day penetration has more than doubled since Q1 of 2019 when sales through these services accounted for less than a third of our digital sales. While all three same-day services continue to grow faster than overall digital, Drive Up has been a standout and consistently receives the highest ratings of anything we do. This service only accounted for about 5% of our first-quarter digital sales two years ago, and that ratio expanded to more than 30% this year. Put it another way, in the first quarter alone, Drive Up sales have grown by well over $1 billion in the last two years. As John will outline in more detail, we continue to expand the assortment available for Drive Up and we've earmarked capital investments to make Drive Up even more convenient for our guests and efficient for our team, given that we anticipate continued rapid growth of this service. While it's gratifying to see what our team has accomplished over the last several years, there is much more opportunity in front of us. We're planning significant investments in our store assets as we remodel hundreds of more locations, roll out new Ulta and Apple shopping environments, invest in the efficiency of our same-day services and enter new neighborhoods by opening new small and medium-sized stores. We're also investing in our brand portfolio as we focus on presenting the best owned and national brands to our guests, which we highlight through the best in-store and digital shopping experience in the market. We're also making continued investments in safety equipment, reinforcing the trust and confidence we've already established with our guests. And we continue to invest in our team, in their pay, benefits, training, and advancement to ensure that Target continues to be a destination for top talent. And as you've seen for many of our recent announcements, we're investing to leverage our size and scale, purpose, and value to work for all families. This summer, we'll share more information about our refreshed enterprise sustainability strategy that further draws on our company legacy of corporate responsibility, diversity, and inclusion, and community engagement. As part of our immediate efforts, we'll focus on designing and elevating the sustainable brand, innovating to eliminate waste, and accelerating opportunity and equity in all communities, all in service to a safe and prosperous future for all. It was four years ago, at the beginning of 2017, that we first announced our plan to double down on investment and growth. The decisions we announced that day and the investments we've made in the intervening years left us well-prepared to handle all the challenges and opportunities presented by the pandemic. In that first quarter of 2017, our business generated sales of just over $16 billion and adjusted EPS of $1.29. Four years later, first-quarter sales have grown nearly 50% and adjusted earnings per share [Technical difficulty]. From today's vantage point, the opportunities ahead of us, both this year and over time, are just as bright as they were on that day four years ago. Despite what's already been accomplished, we've only scratched the surface of what his brand and this team can accomplish over time. I'm excited to stand with them as we write the next chapter in this great company's history. Now, I'll turn it over to Christina, who will share more perspective on our first-quarter results and for priorities going forward. Christina?Christina Hennington -- Chief Growth Officer Thanks, Brian. As we enter 2021, we knew we would be a year like no other. That's because we're coming off of 2020, which was by far the most unusual year any of us have ever experienced. As such, we knew there'd be a wide range of potential outcomes for our sales, both by category and in total. And so far, with one quarter behind us, results have been extremely positive across every dimension. In the face of this strength, we've seen an incredible response from our teams across the board, from our stores to our merchants to the supply chain. We've all worked together in the service of our guests. While there are many ways to measure the impact of those efforts, guest loyalty and market share are the two most important measures of success in this volatile time. Consequently, it's incredibly gratifying to see that across every one of our guest segments, in the first quarter, we measured an increase in average trips per guest and a larger average basket. This led to more than $1 billion of additional market share in the quarter on top of $1 billion gain a year ago. In terms of category performance, we saw the strongest growth in our apparel business, which delivered comp growth in the low-60% range. As Brian mentioned, we saw a temporary dip in apparel sales last year when first-quarter comps were down around 20%. Following this year's strong increase, first-quarter apparel sales have grown approximately 29% over the last two years. Home also delivered incredible growth with an increase in the mid-30% range on top of a high single-digit increase a year ago. Within home, growth was strong across the board with the most robust performance in our decorative home and seasonal businesses. Hard lines also delivered huge volume with comp growth above 30% on top of a 20% increase a year ago. Results were led by sporting goods and toys, which both saw comps above 40%. Beauty comped in the high-teens on top of a high single-digit growth a year ago. Within beauty, the skin care, sun care, and bath categories delivered comp growth in the mid-30% range with cosmetics growing in the low-20%. Finally, our essentials and food categories both delivered comps in the low to mid-single digits with the healthy growth on top of last year is remarkable. As you recall, that a year ago, guests were aggressively stacking up their pantries, fridges, and freezers, and we sold virtually every unit of paper goods that we owned. Beyond category strength, I want to pause and also highlight that sales on Target's owned brands grew approximately 36% in the first quarter, the strongest increase we've ever recorded. Because of our unique capabilities in product design, development, and sourcing, our owned-brand products offer an unbeatable combination of design, quality, and value. These brands aren't something that our guests pick up while they're at Target, they're a big reason why they shop at Target, which is why we continue to invest in them. We frequently talk about performance by category and our brand because it's important that our entire portfolio is healthy and well-positioned to meet our guests' needs. But it's also important to realize that they create value for our guests beyond simply some of the parts. Rather, it's the combination of all our offerings, including categories, brands, and services across our distinct multi-channel experience that allows Target to serve our guests' needs today and over time. Last year, as guests focused more on enjoying time at home, that had implications not just for our home category, but also for hard lines, food and beverage, and essentials. And their focus on health and wellbeing affected trends in activewear, beauty, healthcare, food and beverage, and more. The same is true for our sales channels. As guests last year focused on social distancing, they leaned into digital, including our same-day services. And this year, as they're looking to get back out in public, they're flocking to our stores, based on the trust we established over time, which was further reinforced by last year's investments. So as we plan the remainder of the year, both in total and by category, we continue to listen closely to our guests to understand how they're thinking and feeling. And when we talk to our guests today, they tell us they want to maintain some of the new habits and routines they formed during the pandemic, including an enhanced focus on the joy of home and health and well-being of their family. At the same time, there's a rapidly emerging emphasis on style and mobility, as guests feel increasingly safe in public spaces. That trend is playing out in an explosive demand for dresses and cosmetics, as well as luggage and categories based on being active like sporting goods and performance activewear. This reinforces the concept of and, Target can fulfill our guests' needs as they focus on home and health and when they look to venture out. We can welcome them back into our stores and continue to serve them with the same-day services they've recently tried and now love. So after a record-setting first quarter, we're keeping our foot on the gas, based on our guests' desire to bring rejuvenated life and energy to their homes, celebrate seasonal moments with loved ones, and step out in public. I could not be more excited about the ways we're ready to inspire and energize our guests. Just last week, we launched our latest limited-time collection, Hilton Carter for Target. Off to a great start, this collection features live plants, faux greenery, and unique plant accessories for experienced and novice gardeners alike. Not to be outdone by their parents, younger kids want to make their spaces their own. And our popular kids brand, Pillowfort, will continue to help them do just that. For its five-year anniversary, Pillowfort is celebrating with hundreds of new items that can grow with them and be used in any area of the house. As our guests begin stepping out, they're focused on looking and feeling their best. With this rekindled passion for fashion, our guests will be overjoyed with the latest installment of our designer dress collection. Featuring designs by Christopher John Rogers, Alexis, and Rixo, this assortment offers more than 70 original and affordable dresses in bold, bright patterns, and statement silhouettes. And of course, with our continued focus on inclusivity and celebrating everybody, this collection features affordable prices in a range of sizes from extra-extra small to 4X. We've long focused on making Target a destination for holidays and life events, and we just wrapped up a huge Mother's Day season. We had solutions for mom across the store, from apparel, gifting, beauty, flowers, candy, and more. And now we're gearing up for Father's Day in June. We've got a great assortment of gifts for dad, from All in Motion attire for golfing, hitting the gym, or just hanging out, to a line of shave, skin care, and hair care products from Goodfellow. Of course, June celebrations aren't exclusive to dad. With so many in-person celebrations canceled last year, we're ecstatic about our fabulous new assortment for pride as we celebrate love with our LGBTQIA guests, team members, and neighbors. Later in the summer, we know families are excited to celebrate the 4th of July with a long-awaited neighborhood cookout, a road trip out of town, or an intimate backyard barbecue with a few fireworks. With great deals on the perfect owned and national brand assortments, it doesn't matter if the celebration is big or small, Target is everything you'll need to fill a cooler, pack a beach bag, and fill up with friends, family, and fun. And before we know it, it's time to head back to school, and we're planning for one of our biggest back-to-school and college seasons ever. Of course, we'll have great deals on all the traditional school supplies, but we'll also have the new normals on the school supply list, like hand sanitizer and disinfectant wipes. With local school lists on target.com and our industry-leading fulfillment options, back-to-school shopping has never been safer or easier. And with the great new apparel offerings from Cat & Jack, Art Class, More than Magic, Wild Fable, Original Use, and All in Motion, all found only at Target, we'll have our school down guests looking and feeling fresh for that first day of school. Before I close, I want to pause and highlight some of the work I'm most passionate about, and that's our work on Target's Reach Committee, which we formed last year to achieve lasting, systemic change for our black guests, team members, and communities. This work aligns with our vision for sustainability at Target, and it's a strong example of how we're becoming an equitable company, creating change that strengthens our business. Hopefully, you've seen our recent announcement that Target is committed to spending more than $2 billion with black-owned businesses by the end of 2025. In addition, we've announced a new scholarship program to support students and more than a dozen historically black colleges and universities. And this summer, both in-store and online, we are adding more items to our Black Beyond measure assortment. I'm so proud of these efforts and everything we do to help all families discover the joy of everyday life. I also want to give a quick shoutout to our store teams. I recently had a chance to visit stores in the New York City market. And after more than a year in which most of my meetings have been virtual, it was an incredibly energizing experience. I visited new, small-format locations across the city, from Manhattan, to Queens, to Brooklyn. Every location was a unique reflection of the local neighborhood, from design to assortment, and the team members serving their neighbors. Based on the energy and passion I could feel from these teams, it's clear why we're seeing such strong sales in our stores across the country. As the first chief growth officer at Target, I couldn't be more enthusiastic about the opportunities still ahead of us. As you saw throughout 2020 and now in 2021, we have a long runway to continue investing in and growing our core business. At the same time, we'll continue to develop innovation pipelines and explore new initiatives, maintaining a balance between fundamentals and execution, and the exploration of new opportunities. As we plan for future growth, we'll continue to listen to our guests and apply those insights to prioritize their work. With this guest first approach, we're confident we can continue to build relevance and market share, both today and over time. With that, I'll turn the call over to John.John Mulligan -- Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Christina. At our Financial Community Meeting earlier this year, we detailed how last year's $15 billion in sales growth was more than we grew over the prior 11 years. And as you've seen today, trends are not slowing down, as we added another $4.5 billion of sales in the first quarter. Given this continued rapid growth and the opportunities still ahead of us, the operations team is focused on building capacity and enhancing processes to create and enable Target's continued growth. That work starts in our supply chain, where we've outlined our plans to add four new regional distribution centers by the end of 2022, with the first two buildings slated to open later this year. These new buildings, located in Chicago and New Jersey, are set to go live in the next several months, creating additional capacity for the network in total, while enhancing service levels in high-volume markets that continue to grow. More specifically, once these buildings are operating at scale, they'll meaningfully shorten lead times to nearby stores, improving in-stock levels, while reducing the need for safety stock in those locations. Beyond the capacity we're adding with these new buildings, we're also investing in updated fixtures to create additional capacity across our current network. These changes are highly capital efficient, involving a small amount of capital to open up a substantial amount of incremental capacity within the network, equivalent to the addition of about 1.5 new distribution centers. And as we told you at our meeting in March, we're pleased with the initial results from our new sortation center in Minneapolis. As a result, we have plans to build up to five more of these facilities in 2021, with additional openings planned for 2022 and beyond. We're opening these centers, which are smaller than an average store in markets with a high concentration of local package delivery. They're designed to receive and sort packages from a large group of surrounding stores multiple times a day, which allows for more optimized granular sortation. This precision reduces costs for our delivery partners, meaningfully reducing what we pay for delivery. In addition, these facilities eliminate the need for sortation with the stores they serve, while freeing up packing capacity at those same locations. Sort centers have long been on our fulfillment roadmap, which we've built through internal development along with small acquisitions. In these facilities, we optimize the selection of delivery partners by applying technology from Grand Junction, which we acquired in 2017. And we optimize sortation to minimize costs to increase speed by applying technology we acquired from Deliv in 2020. In addition, beginning in the first quarter, our Minneapolis sort center began testing package delivery using Shipt, another 2017 acquisition, to add capacity, reduce costs, and enable more flexibility, which will benefit our rapidly growing ship-from-store capability over time. Within our store network, we've begun ramping up our remodel program, following the pause we implemented last year. We have just over 34 remodels slated for completion in the second quarter and more than 100 planned for the back half of the year. Based on past experience, we expect these remodeled stores will generate an incremental 2% to 4% sales growth in the year following completion, with another 2% incremental growth in the second year. Beyond the direct impact on sales, these transformations create an ideal platform for all of the merchandise innovations and service enhancements that we'll launch over time. In addition to full store remodels, we're planning other store investments this year, including more than 100 Ulta shop-in-shops slated to launch in the back half of the year, as well as our enhanced Apple layout in electronics in select stores across the country. Among our store services, we've long known that our same-day fulfillment options would be popular with our guests. But their growth over the last few years has been far above our expectations. This is most evident in our Drive Up service where first-quarter sales volume was nearly 21 times higher than it was two years ago, amounting to nearly $1.3 billion of incremental sales volume over that period. In the face of this incredible growth, there are emerging opportunities in high-volume locations to invest in capacity and efficiency in support of our same-day services. Specifically, in more than 100 locations this year, we're investing in small projects to optimize the front ends of these buildings, freeing up additional capacity for continued same-day growth, while making the layout more efficient and safer for the team. We also continue to enhance the assortments available for all three same-day services, adding more perishable food to our pickup and Drive Up services and more general merchandise like apparel to the assortment available through Shipt. And we just announced that in the second quarter, we'll have adult beverages available through pickup and/or Drive Up in more than 1,200 stores and available for same-day delivery in more than 600 stores across the country. Beyond activity in existing stores, we're expanding our new store opening plans to more than 30 additional locations across the country this year, as we continue to find compelling opportunities in urban and dense suburban markets, and on our near college campuses. In recent years, these custom formats have typically been less than 50,000 square feet. However, given local real estate conditions in dense suburban markets, we're also finding compelling opportunities to open somewhat bigger stores, between 50,000 and 100,000 square feet, which weren't available in the past. As a group, these new stores are generating higher-than-average sales productivity, above-average gross margin rates, and strong financial returns. And we see a very long runway to open more of them over time. And finally, after store comp growth of 18% in the first quarter, driven almost entirely by traffic, we're confident that we're already benefiting from a differentiated service model in our stores. But that's a lead we can't take for granted. So we're continually looking for ways to get even better. So this year, our store teams are rolling out an enhanced service model, focused on consistency of every interaction to ensure that our guests will always feel welcomed and appreciated. And if they need help, there will be team members who can find solutions to enhance their experience. This new engagement model is strongly connected to our company purpose, culture, and values. And we're supporting it with enhanced training and tools across the chain. It's designed not to be a one-and-done effort, but a sustainable model that's integrated with our operational goals, not something separate that's added on to everyday tasks. So as I turn it over to Michael, I want to once again thank the entire team for the incredible things you've already done and your passion to continually raise the bar. This year, I'm celebrating my 25th year at Target. So you might be tempted to think I've seen it all. But when I step back and realize what this team has accomplished in the last year, under the most challenging of circumstances, it's clear that there is no limit to this team's potential, and there's no doubt that we have the best team in retail. Now I'll turn the call over to Michael.Michael Fiddelke -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, John. When I think about the underlying themes of our recent performance, the most dominant one, by far, has been the unprecedented growth and share gains we've seen over the last five quarters. On the P&L, the leverage resulting from growth has more than offset all of the unique headwinds we faced over this challenging period, resulting in really strong performance. Target's total sales grew 23.3% in the first quarter, reflecting comp growth of 22.9%. Given last year's double-digit growth, first-quarter sales have expanded more than 37% over the last two years, driven almost entirely by higher comps. Unlike last year, when consumers were consolidating trips and shopping less often, this year's comp growth was driven primarily by a traffic increase of more than 17% combined with a 5% increase in average ticket. As Brian mentioned, store comps were the growth engine this year, while digital was the primary driver in Q1 2020. As such, over the last two years, both our stores and digital channels have expanded their first-quarter sales by more than $3 billion. This balance highlights the relevance and complementary nature of both channels in serving our guest needs. Our first-quarter gross margin rate of 30% was 490 basis points ahead of last year when we faced a number of temporary headwinds, including markdowns and other costs to rightsize our apparel inventory. Compared with 2019, this year's first-quarter gross margin rate was about 40 basis points higher, which is notable given the digital sales penetration more than doubled in that time, from 7.1% in 2019 to more than 18% this year. In terms of the year-over-year gross margin drivers, mix had a positive impact of about 150 basis points, reflecting the dramatic increase in apparel sales and continued strength in our home category. The remaining favorability was driven by core merchandising, as we continued to benefit from low promotional and clearance markdown rates. And we annualized last year's costs to rightsize our apparel inventory. The rate impact of supply chain and digital fulfillment costs was approximately neutral compared to last year, as the costs of outsized digital growth were offset by the benefit of a stronger mix of same-day fulfillment and our ongoing work to control unit costs across our entire suite of digital fulfillment options. Our first-quarter SG&A expense rate was 18.6% this year, down more than 2 percentage points from 20.7% a year ago and 20.8% in 2019. In terms of drivers, leverage benefits have more than offset all of the extra costs we've absorbed over the last two years, including meaningfully higher pay and benefits for our team and other investments to protect the health and safety of our team and guests. While D&A expenses have grown in each of the last two years, this year's first quarter D&A expense rate was about 40 basis points lower than a year ago and about 80 basis points lower than 2019. Altogether, our first-quarter operating margin rate increased an astounding 7.4 percentage points, compared with a year ago, to an unprecedented 9.8% this year, from a temporary low of 2.4% rate a year ago. However, even compared to a very healthy 6.4% operating margin rate in the first quarter of 2019, this year's rate was more than 3 percentage points higher. In terms of dollars, first-quarter operating income has more than doubled over the last two years. On the bottom line, our business delivered first-quarter GAAP EPS of $4.17, up more than 600% from a year ago and well over double our 2019 GAAP EPS. On the adjusted EPS line, which excluded the gain from the sale of our Dermstore business, we earned $3.69 this year, more than 500% higher than a year ago and well over double our 2019 adjusted EPS. As you know, our capital deployment priorities remain the same as they've been for decades. We first look to fully invest in our business and projects that meet our strategic and financial criteria. Second, we return cash to our quarterly dividend, which we've maintained every quarter as a public company and grown every year since 1971. And finally, we return excess cash over time through share repurchases within the limits of our middle-A debt rating. In the first quarter, we invested just over half $0.5 billion in capital expenditures to support our business. We continue to expect our full-year capex will be approximately $4 billion, but the bulk of those expenditures will be more backloaded in the year given the timing of this year's projects. We pay dividends of $340 million in the first quarter, up slightly from a year ago as growth in the per-share dividend was partially offset by a decline in share count. And finally, we resumed share repurchases in the first quarter following a temporary pause in 2020 and deployed about $1.2 billion to retire 6.1 million shares at an average share price of just under $191. And in February, we completed the sale of our Dermstore business, which contributed just over $350 million to our first-quarter cash flow. Altogether, we ended the quarter with about $7.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet. This was down about $700 million from the beginning of the quarter, but still well above where we expect to operate over time. With this cash, we'll be funding approximately $3.5 billion of additional capex in 2021, and we'll be recommending a robust increase in our quarterly dividends to the board later this year. Beyond these uses, we should have ample capacity for continued share repurchases and we'll continue to govern the magnitude and pace of repurchases in support of our goal to maintain our middle-A credit rating. And given where we are today, it will likely be a multiyear journey before our debt metrics move fully back to where they'd been over time. Now, I'd like to turn briefly to our return on invested capital, which reflects both our operating result and the investments we've made to generate them. In the first quarter, our trailing 12-month after-tax ROIC moved up to 30.7%, which is well over double the 13.4% we reported a year ago. While we've indicated that this measure will likely be volatile near-term and could revert to a very healthy number, near 20% over time, the fact that our business has generated such a high after-tax return over the last 12 months is a testament both to the strength of our model and outstanding execution by our team. Now, let me turn to our sales outlook. We learned a lot in the first quarter, and notably got our first look at how our business is successfully comping the comp, with impressive growth on top of last year's strong surge in sale. Also, and importantly, we've continued to gain market share on top of last year's dramatic share gain. Based on these results, we're now planning for our business to deliver a mid to high single-digit comp increase in the second quarter. This expectation is in line with the two-year growth rates we saw in the first quarter. And while we only have a couple of weeks in the quarter behind us, the results we've seen so far this month are consistent with this outlook. The range for second-quarter operating income remains wide but should remain strong, far ahead of our 2019 rate of 7.2%. But perhaps not fully as high as last year's unprecedented rate of 10%. In terms of the specific puts and takes in the quarter, we'll be comping over last year's reversal of the return reserve estimate, which added about $110 million to last year's operating income. In addition, this year, we're making purposeful investments in store labor hours to ensure we deliver outstanding service and stronger in stocks than a year ago when sales grew far beyond our expectations. Of course, we'll continue to benefit from meaningful sales leverage given that we're planning for healthy growth on top of last year's record-setting increase. Putting that all together, we expect to see continued strong performance on this line. In the back half of the year, the range of possibilities for comp growth is also quite wide, and we'll gain more insight as the year progresses. As of today, based on our recent results and confidence going forward, we expect to see positive single-digit comps in the back half of the year on top of last year's unprecedented performance. Regarding our full-year operating margin rate, following an exceptionally strong first quarter, we have increasing confidence in the consumer and industry backdrop in the back half of the year. As such, the range of outcomes for our 2021 operating margin rate has moved significantly higher. So despite the anticipated headwind from higher markdown rate following last year's historically low rate, we believe that our business is positioned to deliver a full-year operating margin rate that's well over last year's rate of 7%. More specifically, we believe this year's operating margin rate could reach 8% or perhaps a little higher. We'll continue to refine our view throughout the year. As the team looks ahead to the rest of the year, they're focused on staying agile in what continues to be a volatile environment. Rather than placing all of their bet on a single forecast number, they're focused on contingency planning, creating flexibility that will allow us to react to unexpected changes, and importantly, take advantage of opportunity when we see it. We're also excited about the investment still ahead of us and the growth they'll create. Hundreds more remodels, dozens of new stores, new Ulta and Apple shopping environment, and supply chain investments to support both replenishment and fulfillment. Given the performance we're seeing today, which is the product of the investments we've made over the last few years, we're eagerly leading into future opportunities to enable more profitable high return growth over time. Before I turn it back over to Brian, I want to add my voice and thanks to the team. The value our team members are creating for our business, communities, shareholders, and each other goes far beyond what we can measure in the P&L. Thanks for making Target an even stronger company on behalf of all of our stakeholders. Brian? Brian Cornell -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Before we move to your questions, I want to pause and acknowledge again the role our team played in the outstanding results we delivered this quarter. I'm thankful for their continued focus on our guests, focus on operational excellence, and passion for our brand. I also want to acknowledge the challenges facing our India headquarter team, along with our team members who have family there given the recent surge in COVID-19 cases. We have been carefully monitoring conditions on the ground and providing extra support to our team during this difficult time to ensure they can take care of themselves and their families. We've also funded $500,000 donation to UNICEF to increase access to option treatment in hospitals across the country and bring testing resources to the hardest-hit community. We're hopeful that conditions there will continue to improve. So now, as we get ready to move your questions, I want to underscore the confidence you've heard throughout our remarks today. Coming off an unbelievable year in 2020, we had a lot of confidence as we entered 2021. But our first-quarter results came in far ahead of our baseline expectation. With the macro and consumer backdrop that's been surprisingly positive, we've seen remarkable momentum in our performance even as we started a comp over the period of [Audio gap] increases a year ago. The flexibility of our category mix and fulfillment options, combined with an agile, energetic, and engaged team, continue to resonate with our guests, driving double-digit traffic growth and an increase in average tickets in the first quarter. But as you've often heard me say, we shouldn't confuse performance with potential. So even after more than a year of unprecedented growth, we're staying focused and leaning into the opportunities ahead of us, making investments to build on an already strong foundation. With these investments, I'm confident that our business model and outstanding team will continue to raise the bar on already best-in-class retailer in spring, resulting in even stronger loyalty and guest engagement over time. With that, we'll turn to Q&A. Christina, John, Michael, and I will be happy to take your questions. 