  OperatorWelcome to the Q4 2021 Datadog earnings conference call. My name is John, and I'll be your operator for today's call. [Operator instructions] And I will now turn the call over to Yuka Broderick, head of investor relations.Yuka Broderick -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, John. Good morning and thank you for joining us to review Datadog's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2021 financial results, which we announced in our press release issued this morning. Joining me on the call today are Olivier Pomel, Datadog's co-founder and CEO, and David Obstler, Datadog's CFO. During this call, we will make forward-looking statements, including statements related to our future financial performance, our outlook for the first quarter and the fiscal year 2022, our gross margins and operating margins, including investments in R&D and go-to-market, our strategy, our product capabilities, and our ability to capitalize on market opportunities.

 



 The words anticipate, believe, continue, estimate, expect, intend, will, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements or similar indications of future expectations. These statements reflect our views only as of today and are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of the material risks and other important factors that could affect our actual results, please refer to our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2021. Additional information will be made available in our upcoming Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 and other filings and reports that we may file with the SEC.These filings are available on the investor relations section of our website along with a replay of this call. We will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures, which are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the tables in our earnings release, which is available at investors.datadoghq.com. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Olivier. Olivier Pomel -- Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Yuka, and thank you all for joining us this morning. We are very pleased with our performance in Q4 where we showed high growth at scale as well as strong business efficiencies. Looking back at 2021, not only do we continue to see a very strong demand environment, we also kept innovating at a rapid pace. And our team executed extremely well to help our customers manage complexity in the cloud area.

 



 Let's start with a quick summary of Q4. Revenue was $326 million, an increase of 84% year over year and above the high end of our guidance range. We had about 18,800 customers, up from about 14,200 at the end of last year. We ended the quarter with about 2,010 customers with ARR of $100,000 or more, up from 1,228 at the end of last year. These customers generated about 83% of our ARR. We had 216 customers with ARR of $1 million or more, which is more than double the 101 we had at the end of last year. The leverage and efficiency of our business model is coming through with free cash flow of $107 million. And our dollar-based net retention rate continued to be over 130% as customers increase their usage and adopted our newer product. At a high level, positive business trends from recent quarters continued in Q4. Business growth from existing customers exceeded our expectations this quarter. And we saw strong growth across all the products in our platform in all business segments. We had record new logo ARR in Q4, including some large new enterprise wins. And churn remains low and in line with historical rates. All these factors together led to another record quarter of ARR added. Next, our platform strategy continues to resonate in the market. As of the end of Q4, 78% of customers were using two or more product, up from 72% a year ago.

 



 33% of customers were using four or more products, up from 22% a year ago. And as a sign of further adoption of our platform, we saw that 10% of our customers were using six or more product, which is up from 3% last year. We saw strong growth across our platform in Q4. Year-over-year growth of infrastructure monitoring ARR has accelerated in Q4 compared to Q3. In addition to that, APM suite and log management products continue to be in hyper-growth mode. And we're very pleased to report that our newer products added about $100 million in ARR in 2021. These are the newer products we launched in 2019, which excludes core infrastructure, core APM, and log management. Now let's move on to product and R&D, where our teams have not been slowing down and delivered another strong quarter of innovation. We announced the general availability of Sensitive Data Scanner in December. Sensitive Data Scanner gives customers an easy and cost-effective method to discover, classify, and protect sensitive information. With modern applications, data moves across many important teams, making it difficult to know when services are storing sensitive data. This is particularly important for enterprises in regulated industries like healthcare or financial services. Sensitive Data Scanner is available today for log management, and we'll be working to extend it into other areas of the platform in 2022. We also announced this morning the acquisition of CoScreen, a screen-sharing platform that allows participants to interact with a joint work space in real time. Engineering is a team sport. CoScreen lets us bring individual work into a shared team environment. And unlike general purpose video conferencing tools, which are one too many and focus on presentation and conversation, CoScreen is many to many, allowing multiple participants to share and collaborate in each other's windows as if they were local applications. We believe this will help our customers in a number of use cases such as incident response and aligns with our founding goal of breaking down silos between teams. Now let's take a moment to review our accomplishments in 2021. We ended the year with 13 generally available products, up from nine at the end of 2020. We significantly extended our visibility capabilities in 2021. In infrastructure monitoring, we made it even easier to instrument and monitor. We launched over 80 new integrations covering cloud, CDN, web platforms, automation platforms, and more. We now have over 500 integrations and continue to go deeper into cloud platforms, including AWS, Azure, and GCP. We launched network device monitoring for physical network devices and appliances. We created new container-centric views as our customers continue adopting Kubernetes at massive scale. On the serverless front, we have expanded our coverage to include visibility into not only the functions customers develop, but also the ecosystem of data, security, and routing services that surround them. And we launched a beta of universal service monitoring, which captures service level health and performance without needing to modify any application code. Our APM suite was named a leader in the Gartner Magic Quadrant in 2021, and we doubled down on innovation in APM. We expanded Real User Monitoring meaningfully, particularly for Android and iOS mobile devices. we launched Session Replay, database monitoring and automated tracking of faulty deployment. We expanded Synthetic Monitoring with support of numerous new browsers and locations. In Continuous Profiler, we added support to profile many new languages such as .NET, Ruby, PHP, CC++, and Node.js. And we invested to get close with developers day-to-day experience with synthetic testing in CI pipelines detecting problems before they happen in production. They are tracking now covering front-end devices and back-end services and source code integration enabling developers to tie production to the right line of code. In log management, we continue to aggressively invest, providing more sophisticated analytical and governance capabilities, and giving our customers more flexibility with data storage and retention. Our improvements unlock many sophisticated use cases, for example, in cybersecurity and business analysis. We also announced Online Archives, a new long-term data store for extremely large data volumes. Now further expanding observability to development workflows, we launched CI Visibility to help developers ship faster and more safely. And going beyond observability, we launched our Cloud Security Platform, including Cloud SIEM, Cloud Security Posture Management, and Cloud Workload Security. In addition to those, our application security product is currently in beta. And we're now very pleased with our early momentum in security as we have thousands of customers using our cloud security products today. We also kept opening up Datadog as a platform with the release of Datadog apps. And finally, we'll continue to invest and innovate with Watchdog, Datadog's AI engine. Watchdog can automatically detect and correct anomalies. And we've been busy extending Watchdog to provide information in context throughout our platform. I want to thank our engineering and product teams for their hard work and their relentless focus on our customers. Now moving on to sales and marketing. Earlier this month, we announced the promotion of Sean Walters to chief revenue officer. This is a well-deserved promotion for Sean, who has been an enterprise sales leader at Datadog for four years now and have shown excellence in building strong teams and delivering high productivity. We've all been impressed with his performance over the past few quarters as well. Sean has a deep experience in the field with over 20 years of increasing responsibilities in software sales, and we are excited to see him build on his successes as CRO. In addition to this, we are pleased to have received a FedRAMP moderate authorization. As a result, we can now sell to U.S. Federal Government agencies as well as the other public sector customers who use FedRAMP as an indicator of compliance and security. We have been working to build our go-to-market teams for the public sector, and we intend to expand on those efforts aggressively. We also announced a global strategic partnership with AWS. This is a recognition of our success and growth with AWS and our commitment to further invest to accelerate our joint opportunities. Among the areas of further partnership, we have already integrated Datadog more tightly into the AWS marketplace. We are also working with AWS to build deeper integrations not only for observability, but also for security use cases, and we are also planning to extend our joint go-to-market activities. Meanwhile, our sales teams continue to execute at a very high level. So let's discuss some wins for Q4. First, we had a six-year land deal with a major U.S. airline. This customer has chosen Datadog as the de facto monitoring solution for all new IT projects and applications. They plan to start with six products in the Datadog platform with an expectation to expand significantly with more teams and applications over time. Next, we had a seven-figure up-sell with a major European car company. Prior to using Datadog, this customer has five disparate monitoring tools, which created focus alerts while leaving gaps in coverage. With Datadog, they were able to break down silos between teams and reduce the frequency and duration of outages. Next, we had an up-sell to add figures of ARR with a major financial infrastructure company. This customer has consolidated multiple monitoring tools in Datadog, helping them ensure stability and support growth. This customer estimate savings of 45% by migrating to Datadog. And the up-sell also includes new products such as Cloud SIEM, Cloud Workload Security, and Cloud Security Posture Management. And this customer now uses 10 Datadog products. Next, we had a seven-figure up-sell with a multinational beverage conglomerate. This expansion makes Datadog their global observability standards with enterprise adoption across six international zones. Thanks to Datadog log correlation, what used to take three people an hour of log data gathering, now it takes one person less than 10 minutes. And finally, we wanted to spend some time discussing our largest-ever multimillion dollar land deal with a major media company. This media conglomerate sees massive amounts of traffic with this customer-facing content. And the most critical content such as live sports and entertainment requires highly optimized observability. This customer also decided to embark upon a significant digital transformation project, eliminating these data centers over time in favor of cloud. This operational overhaul hinged on proper end-to-end observability. But the customers' existing monitoring solutions failed to innovate quickly enough to support his growth and increasing complexity. In addition, reliance in open-source tooling was a strain on engineering resources. Datadog provided a single integrated cloud solution, and the customer plans to replace eight different commercial open source tools with the Datadog platform, starting with five of our products. So as you can see, our go-to-market teams are successfully helping both new and existing customers get value out of Datadog. And I want to congratulate them for their incredible work this quarter. Now looking ahead to 2022 and beyond. We continue to see digital transformation and cloud migration as critical for our existing and prospective customers. The cloud and other next-gen technologies are creating complexity that customers need to understand and manage. Meanwhile, security threats can occur anywhere in this broad and dynamic set of infrastructure and applications, making identifying vulnerability and attacks absolutely crucial. So there's a lot of demand out there for observability and security for modern stack. As a result, we continue to feel that we are still very early with respect to our products and our market opportunity. And looking forward to 2022, we will make further progress in expanding the Datadog platform. We have a lot to do, and we're excited about what's in front of us. On a final note, we feel that 2021 was a very successful year for Datadog, which we recognize, and it's been a tough time for many others. This is why we're happy to report that together with our employees, Datadog donated over $3 million to nonprofit global organizations at the end of the year, and we look forward to giving back more to our communities in 2022. With that, I will turn the call over to our CFO for a review of financial performance and guidance. David? David Obstler -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Olivier. In summary, we had a very strong Q4 and fiscal year 2021. Revenue was $326 million, up 84% year over year and up 21% quarter over quarter. Usage growth with our existing customers exceeded our expectations. Customers are finding value from adopting more products on our platform. And new logo ARR grew robustly in Q4. Let's go into some more of the details. First, growth of existing customers was strong in Q4. And our dollar-based net retention rate remained above 130% for the 18th consecutive quarter. Usage growth was very strong. Our customers expanded the usage of our largest products meaningfully. Infrastructure monitoring year-over-year ARR growth accelerated from Q3 levels. And the APM suite and log management products remain in hyper-growth mode. And our newer products are all growing very rapidly. We also saw strong ARR growth in each geographical region. North America, EMEA, and APAC all accelerated on a year-over-year basis compared to Q3. Our go-to-market teams delivered a strong quarter in new logos and new logo ARR. We added 1,300 customers sequentially, a new record for us. And new logo ARR was also a record and included our largest ARR land ever, as Olivier discussed earlier. Remember that given our usage-based revenue model, new logo wins generally do not immediately translate into meaningful revenue. Our platform strategy continues to resonate with customers with 78% of our customers using two or more products, 33% using four or more products and 10% using six or more Datadog products as of the end of Q4. Finally, churn has remained low. Our dollar-based gross retention rate has gradually improved over the years and is now in the mid to high 90s, and it's similar across customer segments and major products. Turning to billings. Billings were $408 million, up 86% year over year. Billings duration in Q4 were similar to the year ago quarter and within the range we've seen historically. Remaining performance obligations, or RPO, was $815 million, up 88% year over year. And contract duration was similar to the year ago quarter. Current RPO growth was over 80% year over year. We continue to believe revenue is a better indicator of our business trends than billings and RPO as those can fluctuate relative to revenue based on the timing of invoicing and the duration of customer contracts. Now let's review the income statement. As a reminder, unless otherwise noted, all metrics are non-GAAP. We have provided a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financials in our earnings release. Gross profit in the quarter was $262 million, representing a gross margin of 80%. This compares to a gross margin of 78% last quarter and also 78% in the year ago quarter. As we discussed on last quarter's call, we saw efficiencies in cloud costs reflected in our cost of goods sold in the quarter. In the medium to long term, we continue to expect gross margin to remain in the high 70s range. Operating income was $71 million or a 22% operating margin compared to an operating income of $18 million with a 10% margin in the year ago quarter. We are experiencing significant business efficiencies on strong revenue growth. This is occurring despite continued aggressive investments in our long-term opportunities, particularly in R&D and go-to-market. Finally, in Q4, we hosted our Dash user conference virtually and a strong presence at AWS re:Invent. Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statements. We ended the quarter with $1.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities. And cash flow from operations was a strong $116 million in the quarter. After taking into account, taking into consideration capex and capitalized software, free cash flow was $107 million with a free cash flow margin of 33%. I want to briefly summarize our fiscal 2021 results. Revenue was $1.03 billion, up 70% year over year. We generated $165 million positive in operating income for a 16% operating margin compared to $64 billion with an 11% operating margin in 2020. And we generated $251 million in free cash flow at a 24% margin in 2021 compared to $83 million at a 14% margin in 2020. I want to thank all Datadog employees for their hard work and strong execution throughout 2021. Now for our outlook for the first quarter and fiscal year 2022. We continue to believe we are in early days of our opportunity in observability. And we are at the very beginning of our potential in-cloud security and developer-focused observability. At 18,800 customers, we believe we are still very early in our penetration of potential customers worldwide. And we see opportunities broadly across industries and customer sizes. As we look on to 2022, we believe companies have learned to manage around the potential business disruptions and remote work life over the past couple of years. And we believe that the need for companies to embark upon digital transformation and cloud migration projects is higher than ever in our strategic imperative to drive competitive advantage. So we are initiating our fiscal 2022 guidance, which includes continued high growth. With our usual conservatism applied, our outlook is as follows. For the first quarter, we expect revenues to be in the range of $334 million to $339 million, which represents 70% year-over-year growth at the midpoint. Non-GAAP operating income is expected to be in the range of $36 million to $41 million. And non-GAAP net income per share is expected to be in the $0.10 to $0.12 range per share based on approximately 348 million weighted average diluted shares. For the full year fiscal 2022, we expect revenues to be in the range of $1.51 billion to $1.53 billion, which represents 48% year-over-year growth at the midpoint. Non-GAAP operating income is expected to be in the range of $160 million to $180 million. And non-GAAP net income per share is expected to be in the range of $0.45 to $0.51 per share at approximately 350 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding. And now some notes on the guidance. As usual, when providing guidance, we use more conservative assumptions than we have seen in our historical results. Our strategic focus remains to invest aggressively in R&D and go-to-market to optimize for our long-term growth. Next, our model assumes greater expenses related to travel and in-person events going forward, but we remain flexible depending on further COVID developments. And our highest priority is protecting the health of our employees. Finally, as it relates to our capital expenditures, we are catching up on office build-outs and expect capex as a percent of sales to roughly double compared to 2021. In conclusion, we are very pleased with our results in Q4 and 2021. We continue to innovate rapidly and broaden our platform capabilities with many more products planned to be launched in 2022. We have grown our go-to-market opportunities, including in the public sector with our FedRAMP moderate authorization and deepening our relationships with our cloud partners. And across the company, we are working hard to execute against our opportunities in 2022 and beyond. And with that, we will open the call for questions. Operator, let's begin the Q&A. 