
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Parker Hannifin Corporation's Fiscal 2022 First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions]Thank you. I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, our Chief Financial Officer, Todd Leombruno. Sir, please go ahead.Todd M. Leombruno -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 



Thank you, Rachel, and good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining our FY '22 Q1 earnings release webcast. As Rachel said, this is Todd Leombruno, Chief Financial Officer. And joining me today is Tom Williams, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Banks, our Vice Chairman and President. If I could direct you to Slide two, you'll see our disclosure statement addressing our forward-looking statements and non-GAAP financial measures. As usual, we've included all reconciliations for any non-GAAP measures in today's materials. Those reconciliations and our presentation are accessible under the Investors section on parker.com and will remain available for one year.The agenda is as usual. Tom is going to begin with some highlights on the quarter. He's got a few strategic comments to you that he'd like to add. And then I'll follow up with a very brief financial summary of our quarter and provide some color to the details on the increase in our guidance that we released this morning. Tom will close with a few closing summary comments, and then we'll open up the lines and take your questions. Just one reminder regarding the pending Meggitt acquisition, we are still bound by the requirements of the U.K. Takeover Code in respect to discussing certain transaction details. So that's just a reminder for everyone.With -- now, I'll ask you to move to Slide three, and I'll hand it off to Tom.Thomas L. Williams -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Todd, and good morning, everybody, and welcome to the call. We turned in an outstanding quarter, and it's a great start to FY '22. My thanks to the global team for delivering such a record quarter against the backdrop of strong demand, inflation and supply chain disruptions. So a couple of highlights. Safety performance continued to improve, 17% reduction in recordable incidents on a rolling 12-month basis. Very strong growth, in particular organic growth is 16% year-over-year. It was an extensive list of records. We had seven first quarter records: sales, total company operating margin, net income and EPS. And in each reporting segment, all three of them had all-time operating margin records. EBITDA margin, you can see the reported number was 22.1% adjusted or 210 basis points higher than the prior year. And then down at the bottom, last row, segment operating margin adjusted was 22%. Again, a 210 basis points improvement versus the prior year. Just a great quarter. Very proud of the team, and thank you for your hard work.Going to Slide four, there's really three things that drive the company, living up our purpose and great generators and deployers of cash and being a top quartile performer. If you go to Slide five, I want to just spend a minute, if you remembered our purpose statement, enabling engineering breakthroughs that lead to a better tomorrow. And we've been trying to show you examples of our purpose in action, helping the company come to life. And one of the secular trends that the pandemic is accelerating is digitization. And in Investor Day, we're going to highlight more for you our content as you look at the whole digital supply chain. As an example, things like 5G infrastructure, electronics, manufacturing, clean rooms, data centers, electronic devices, shielding the thermal management that we do there and of course, transportation to get these products around the world. But the application that I wanted to cover today is semiconductors, given especially the importance of chip demand around the world.So if you go to Slide six, there's going to be a significant amount of investment, as we all are aware of, in the semi-semiconductor space, and that's going to drive for us double-digit growth over the next several years. Now we are -- we have strong expertise in semiconductor manufacturing. About 1/4 of our division ship them kind of content into the semiconductor space. So to orientate you on this slide, on the left-hand side are the applications that we go into and the right-hand side are our technology. So just a second on the applications. Those six bullets that you see there really are made up of a combination of what we would call fabs and tools. The fabs would be the infrastructure or the transportation part of the process and the tools and the various tools that are in the factory helping to make the semiconductors.On the left-hand side is the picture of a wafer. And on the center there, that is a picture of an etch tool, a six-chamber etch tool. So on the right are our technologies that we bring to create and bring value for our customers. First segment is process control. So think of that as precise control of gases and liquids in the process. Fluid and gas handling provides a cooling system for the tools, petromechanicals helping with the wafer movement and then engineered materials is doing shielding and sealing. The shielding is helping to protect the wafer from electromagnetic static issues, which would destroy the chips. So we are essential to the digital supply chain in this supply chain and related technologies and markets around digital. If you combine that, it will be part of four major secular trends for the company, driving long-term growth. That would be aerospace, ESG, electrification and digitization.

 



So if you go to Slide seven. Speaking of the breadth of technologies, these eight motion control technologies, 2/3 as you heard me talk about in the past of our revenue come from customers who buy four more of these technologies. So again, it speaks to the interconnectedness of the technologies, the value proposition of the system and subsystem work that we do. But then coincidentally, 2/3 of our portfolio is also helping to enable our customers with our clean technology journey. And that 2/3 is going to continue to evolve to virtually 100% over time. I'll give you a classic example. The seal work that we do today on a combustion engine for transmissions or for piston seals, eventually gets replaced for seals, promoters and batteries in electric vehicles. So the takeaway on the bottom here is really our brand promise, helping our customers increase their productivity and their profitability. And we do that really in two ways. It's that interconnected tissue, the value proposition that we offer. And we're going to be a big part of helping our customers on their sustainability journeys we help with our claim technologies.Going to the next slide, Slide eight, one of our favorite slides. It's going to -- you wanted to know whether Parker is really different or not, a picture's worth a thousand words. On the left-hand side is the EPS trend. We've updated that now for our current guidance for FY '22. And you can see that's virtually a 45-degree angle there, tremendous amount of year-over-year improvement, and 2.5 times EPS growth from the $7 that we were doing in FY '16. Then on the right-hand side is EBITDA margin. Again, you can see an almost 45-degree angle to that trajectory. And while we don't guide on EBITDA margin, our performance in the actual quarter we just completed for EBITDA margin was 22.1%. So you can see that we'll continue to show the expansion we're doing on margins. So the question might be how, and how is really in the header there, it's in our people, their engagement, the ownership that they're taking, the portfolio changes that we made and then the strategic changes, Win Strategy 2.0 and now most recently at 3.0.If you go to Slide nine, just a quick update on the Meggitt transaction. We had a very strongly favorable shareholder vote. We're working with the U.K. government on both economic and national security views, they're underway. The antitrust and FDA filings are proceeding as planned, and we still anticipate a Q3 calendar 2022 close. And this is what we described before is a really compelling combination. It's going to double the size of our aerospace business. And when you couple this with the other acquisitions we've done, CLARCOR, LORD, Exotic and now Meggitt, our portfolio is now much more long cycle, less cyclical and faster growing.And with that, I'll hand it over to Todd for more details on the quarter.Todd M. Leombruno -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerOkay. Thank you, Tom. I'll ask you to go to Slide 11. I know Tom mentioned a number of these numbers, so I'll try to move quick. The quarter was fantastic, right? seven records. Sales are up almost 17% versus prior year. We finished at $3.8 billion in sales. Organic sales are roughly 16%. It's almost all of the total, and currency had a small favorable impact of less than 1%. The growth this quarter was really driven across the board, strong broad-based demand across all of our industrial businesses and really a rebound in the commercial aerospace market, so we were happy to see that. And as Tom mentioned, we continue to benefit from strong growth from those recent portfolio additions we did in CLARCOR and LORD and Exotic. Both segment operating margins and adjusted EBITDA margins expanded by 210 basis points from prior year. We're really proud of that number. That adjusted segment operating margin came in at 22% and really just another strong quarter of margin performance.Really proud of our teams, not only responding to the increased demand, but also executing through a number of various well-documented supply chain challenges. And I want to give them credit, there was a great effort to maintain costs in the quarter, and you can see that in our results. Incrementals are 35% year-over-year, which is really impressive. But even more impressive considering last year we had $125 million of discretionary savings really based on the actions we took during the pandemic. So if you account for that, the difference in incrementals would be 58%. So we're very proud of those results. If you look at net income, adjusted net income and adjusted EPS, both of those numbers increased by 40% versus prior year. Adjusted net income is $557 million, that's a 14.8% return on sales. And adjusted EPS were $4.26, that's a $1.21 increase from prior year where we finished at $3.05.If you jump to Slide 12, this is really just that breakdown of the $1.21 increase in adjusted EPS. And really, the story here is just very strong, solid operating performance across every segment. Adjusted segment operating income increased by $184 million or almost 30% from prior year. That really is the first leg in this bridge that's $1.10 or 91% of the increase in earnings per share. All the other items netted to another $0.11 of favorable items and interest expense. Other expense and tax were all favorable and that helped us to offset just a slightly higher corporate G&A that was really based on some of those temporary savings we took action with last year.If you go to Slide 13, just looking at the segment, really, the takeaway on this page is every segment generated record margins in the quarter. The other big thing I want to note is we were able -- we've always talked about trying to maintain our neutral price cost position. We were able to do that in the quarter across all the segments. And I already mentioned incrementals already, but I think it really highlights our efforts on covering inflation costs and really managing through the supply chain inefficiencies. So 35% is the MROS, but 58% if you exclude those discretionary savings. And demand continues to be very robust. Orders for the total company are up 26% from prior year. Just diving into the segments really quickly. Diversified Industrial North America, sales were $1.8 billion, that's up 17% from prior year. Adjusted operating margins did improve by 30 basis points from prior year and finished at 21.3%, really sound performance in that segment, considering it's pretty clear that the supply chain challenges are more difficult in the North American region. Order rates also very healthy at 32% positive, and it's really just continuing to show a strong rebound off of those prior year comps.If I look at our international businesses and Diversified Industrial International, great quarter here for that team. even higher organic growth, 21% organic growth. Their sales came in just under $1.4 billion, and adjusted operating margins, significant expansion, 360 basis points improvement from prior year, and they did reach 22.8%. Very proud of that team. Volume obviously was a big driver here. But also, we've talked about this before, our focus on international distribution that helped our mix. That continues to expand and really some disciplined price/cost management across that segment, very important drivers for the quarter. And order rates also very strong at 25% plus prior year. If we move to Aerospace Systems, fantastic quarter from that team, sales were almost $600 million. Organic sales did turn positive for the segment, 3.4%, but it did turn positive. And we were very pleased to see that commercial markets are trending up. And notably, commercial aftermarket came in very strong at 33% over prior year. So it's glad to see some rebound in those markets.Operating margin is a great story here, 400 basis points improvement. That segment came in at 22.1%. And I just want to note, it's really nice to see that level of performance. We are still well below pre-COVID volume level, so there is room to grow here as that volume returns. So we're looking forward to see that as well. And order rates turned positive, plus 16%, that is on a 12-month rolling basis. But if you remember last quarter, it was minus 7%, so we did see an inflection to positive orders in the Aerospace segment. And that's really just further proof of a slow but steady recovery in that segment. So really thanks to all of our global team, very great execution and really just continuing to live up to our purpose and perform extremely well.If I ask you to go to Slide 14, this is just -- I'll touch on cash flow. Cash flow from operations was $424 million or 11.3% of sales. Free cash flow was $376 million or 10% of sales, and our conversion for the quarter was 83%. So I just want everyone to know, working capital management continues to be a very strong story here. We continue to tightly manage this. And really, we're just responding to the inflection in growth here. That increased level of demand, coupled with really our efforts to provide continuity of supply for our customers drove working capital to be a use of cash in the quarter. It accounted to be a 3.6% use of cash in the quarter. And if you just look at that compared to prior year. Prior year, we were in the second quarter of a significant downturn. Today, we're in the second quarter of a significant upturn. Last year, working capital was 6.1% source of cash last year. But just importantly, I want to be clear on this, for the full year, we are forecasting mid-teens cash flow from operations and our free cash flow will be well over 100%. So you'll see that strong cash flow performance for us as we go throughout the year.On Slide 15, just really a quick update on capital deployment. I think everyone saw this, but last week, our Board approved a dividend payout of $1.03 per share. That is our 286th consecutive quarterly dividend. And that payout is in line with our announced target of 30% to 35% of five-year average net income. And on share repurchases, we did purchase $50 million in the quarter through our 10b5-1 program but we also deployed an additional $180 million to purchase shares on a discretionary basis. And essentially, what that does is that discretionary purchase makes up for the three quarters that we paused the 10b5-1 program, from FY '20 Q4 through FY '21 Q2. And our goal there is to eliminate dilution in FY '22. And then I just want to give a final update on the Meggitt financing.In the quarter, we did secure a $2 billion deferred draw term loan. That, together with a $215 million cash deposit into escrow positioned us to take down our initial bridge facility. So that was successful. And then I want to be clear here, in October, after the quarter end, we also deposited another $2.3 billion into escrow from a combination of proceeds from commercial paper issuance and also some cash on hand, and that really allowed us to further reduce that bridge to GBP3.2 billion. Lastly, on Meggitt financing, we did complete a deal contingent forward hedge contract in the amount of $6.4 billion, and that really was just to lock in our pound to dollar rate as we continue to work through financing on the Meggitt acquisition. So great work by the team there.If I go to Slide 16, just looking at guidance, obviously, you saw we increased our guidance this morning. As usual, we're going to give this to you on an as-reported and an adjusted basis. The sales range now for the year is approximately 6% to 9% or just under 8% at the midpoint. The breakdown of that is really all organic. It's 8.4% organic growth. We do expect currency to turn on us in Q3 through Q4, and that will create just a minimal drag, about 0.5 point to top line sales. And obviously, that's going to impact the international segment. There is no impact from acquisitions. We still do not expect Meggitt in our fiscal year. We're targeting Q3 of calendar year 2022, but we have no impact from Meggitt acquisition sales or segment operating income. And the split on sales is 48% first half, 52% second half. If you move down to segment operating margins, we did increase our adjusted segment operating margin forecast for the full year by 30 basis points from our prior guide, and that full year now gets us to 21.9% at the midpoint.There is a range of 20 basis points on either side of that. And segment operating margin is split 47% first half, 53% in the second half. No change to adjustments at a pre-tax level, so you see all those numbers, those are exactly the same that we guided last quarter. And in corporate G&A and other expense, we expect that to now be $513 million on an as-reported basis and $461 million on an adjusted basis. Really, the only difference there is some transaction-related costs with the Meggitt acquisition. And just a reminder, we will continue to adjust transactional-related expenses as they are incurred until we get through all of those transactions. No change to the tax rate. We expect that to be 23%. And our EPS guidance on an adjusted basis is now $17.30 at the midpoint. We did narrow the range a little bit, $0.35 on either side of that. And the first half, second half split is 46% first half, 52% -- or excuse me, 54%, second half. And then finally, I'll just say for Q2 we are expecting adjusted EPS to be $3.74 at the midpoint. So that's just a real brief summary of the quarter.With that, I will turn it back over to you, Tom.Thomas L. Williams -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Todd. And I think the portfolio kind of sums up our thoughts. A big thank you to the global team and a highly engaged team delivering outstanding performance, and couple that with what is very bright future, propelled by the Win Strategy 3.0 and our strategic long-cycle acquisitions as part of our capital deployment strategy.With that, Todd has a quick comment that he wants to make about logistics before we start the Q&A.Todd M. Leombruno -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerYes. Just one comment before we start the Q&A portion of the call, we'd like to respond to as many analysts as we can today on the call. So if you could ask one question, a follow-up, if necessary, and then jump back in the queue, it would be appreciated.So with that, Rachel, I'll turn it back over to you, and we can start the Q&A session.
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Parker-Hannifin Fiscal 2021 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call and Presentation. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]The opening speaker for today's call is Parker's Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Todd Leombruno. Please go ahead, Sir.Todd M. Leombruno -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 



Thank you, Elaine, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining our FY 2021 Q3 earnings release webcast. As Elaine said, this is Todd Leombruno, Chief Financial Officer speaking. Here with me today are Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Tom Williams; and President and Chief Operating Officer, Lee banks. On slide two, you'll find the company's safe harbor disclosure statement addressing forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations for all non-GAAP measures are included in today's materials. These reconciliations and our presentation are accessible under the investors section at parker.com and will remain available for one year. We'll start the call today with Tom providing some quarter highlights and some strategic commentary, and I will provide a summary of the quarter, financial results and review the increase to guidance that we announced this morning. Tom will then close with key messages and then Tom, Lee and I will take any questions the group may have.With that, I'll direct you to slide three, and I'll hand it off to Tom.Thomas L. Williams -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Todd, and good morning, everybody. Before I jump into slide three and the quarter, I want to say thank you to all the Parker team members around the world for an outstanding quarter. It's really more than just this quarter, it's really been the whole year and the performance to the pandemic and also the transformation of the company into a top quartile diversified industrial company. These results are all because of your efforts. So let's look at the quarter on top of slide three. Starting with safety, as we always do, we had a 33% reduction in record incidents. We're still in the stop quartile, the combination of safety, lean, our high-performance team structure in Kaizen, were all driving high engagement and high performance, you see that show up in our results. Sales grew about 1%. The organic decline was minus 1%, but in particular, if you take out aerospace and look at the industrial only, industrial segment grew organically almost 4%, so that was significant. We had 5 all-time quarterly records. You can net income, EPS, and the segment registered for Parker, North America and international.

 



EBITDA margin was very strong at 21.6% as reported, 21.8% adjusted a huge increase versus prior 250 basis points, year-to-date cash flow was an all-time record of $1.9 billion and 18 -- a little over 18% of sales.If you go to the very last row of this page, you see segment operating margin on an adjusted basis, 21.4% and again, a significant improvement versus prior, plus 240 basis points. So a terrific quarter and really tough conditions. If you go to the next slide. I want to talk about the transformation of the company. The old adage that a picture is worth a thousand words, and so I want to take you to slide five, and this is really the picture that speaks to the transformation of the company. Let me explain the chart here for a minute. So you've got in gold Bars, the adjusted EPS. The blue line is global PMI plotted on a quarterly basis. If you look at the last six years and look at that dotted green line, and compare that to the blue global PMI line, you see they are much less correlated effect there divergent. And there's been a step change in performance.The EPS over this time period is more than doubled from $7 to our guidance of $14.80, so approaching $15 and was propelled that over that time period as an EBITDA margin that's grown 600 basis points. So you might ask how, how that happened? It's really that blue takeaway at the bottom of the page, it's our people. That focus the alignment, the engagement that comes when you have people think and act like an owner. The portfolio, which is a combination of our interconnected technologies and the value they bring and the capital deployment we've done buying some great companies that have added to the strength of the company. Then our performance, which really sits with the strategy of the company, Win Strategy 2.0, at the kind of the beginning of this journey and then The Win Strategy 3.0 most recently in FY 2020. So this combination is really transformed the company. You see that as evidenced in this slide, and we're very proud of it. But if you go to slide six. So that's what's kind of in the rearview mirror. But going forward, we're equally excited about where the company is going to go. And I call this a convergence of positive inflection point. So on the left-hand side is kind of those external inflection points. You're familiar with a lot of these, the macro environment industrial momentum, you see that in our positive orders and positive organic growth industrial we showed in this quarter. Aerospace is going to recover, question is just what the trajectory will be and the timing?Vaccines are making progress around the world. There's going to b e a significant amount of climate investment. And if you put all that on top of, I didn't write all these down, but low interest rates pent-up CapEx demand and fiscal spending, you have a very attractive environment for industrials for the next several years. On the right-hand side is really the internal things we've been doing, Win Strategy 3.0, in particular, but that last slide that I just went through, spoke to all those internal actions because that's what's been propelling us. Remember that last period, last six years, really had very little help from a macro standpoint. So you look at the three major things I highlight here, performance becoming top quartile strategies to grow faster in the market. You've seen our margin expansion, great cash flow generation consistently over the cycle. Portfolio, we've added three great companies, all accretive on growth cash and margins. And with the rapid debt paydown that we've done, we're positioned to do future capital deployment, which is very exciting.The technology, I'll get into in the next slide, but the interconnected technologies really is distinctive for us. And then with a climate investment, we are very well positioned with our suite of clean technologies to take advantage of that. So I would tell you that my view and the team's view this is about as good an environment as we've seen in a number of years. Go to slide seven. You've heard me talk about this page. The power of this interconnectedness technology brings the value accretion for customers what I want to do today in light of the clean technology discussion is give you four examples of how this suite of technologies helps with a more clean environment, clean technology world. So the first would be electrification.

 



And we've got a full portfolio of technologies here, hydraulic, electrohydraulic, pneumatic, electromechanical, no competitors got that breadth of technologies. And we formed about four years ago, the Motion Technology center, which put the best and brightest of engineers to Motion technologies, things that fly as well as things with wheels underneath them. So we put the -- the motion and the aerospace teams together. And this team has come up with a great listing of products around motors, inverters and controllers. But there's also in addition to the typical motion opportunities, there's other challenges around electrification like light weighting, thermal management, shielding, structural adhesives and noise vibration, all these to accomplish what we have a legacy engineered materials and with the LORD acquisition, we're well positioned to take advantage of those. Secondary is batteries and fuel cells that utilize most of the technologies see on this page, third would be clean power sources and that kind of falls into two buckets: Renewables, which we do a lot -- we've always have done a lot of wind and solar; Then the hydrogen, we just recently joined the Hydrogen Council, and it's going to be both onboard as well as infrastructure opportunities as you go out for the next many years. And it's really building in our high-pressure and our cryogenic applications that we have today.And then we've been a more sustainable company for a long time and really the -- a clean technology example for us that started a lot of things is filtration. And our filtration business protects and purifies assets and equipment for people for a more sustainable environment. So we feel very good about this portfolio for climate investment in the future. Going to slide right. I just want to remind you of our purpose statement enabling engineering brakes that lead into a better tomorrow it's been very inspirational for our team. And I think it comes more to light when we give you examples of the purpose in action, which is on slide nine. And again, kind of following with that clean technology discussion, when I'd highlight electrification, I'm going to highlight in particular, electric vehicles. On the left-hand side, you see applications that are changed because of an HEV or EV versus a combustion engine. On the right-hand side, you see the various technologies that Parker has that addresses those applications. I won't read all those under the Bayou see the major category, safety, related technologies, things that say, weight, thermal management and a variety of things we do critical protection. The big opportunity for us, so we obviously are in the factories helping to make these vehicles and we'll always do that, but the big opportunity for us is the onboard content around Engineered materials. Our bill of material for an EV or HEV is 10x what it was in a combustion engine. And it's one of the key reasons why our LORD business has grown so nicely even despite the pandemic we grew 11% organically in Q3 from LORD. So we're very happy with the progress so far and our purpose and action around electrification as an example.So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Todd for more details on the quarter.Todd M. Leombruno -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerOkay. Thanks, Tom. I'll just orientate everyone to slide 11, and I'll do a quick review of the financial results for the quarter. Tom mentioned some of these, so I'll try to move quickly. Sales for the quarter were $3.746 billion. That is an increase of 1.2% versus prior year. We are proud of the fact that the Diversified industrial segment did turn positive organically. Industrial segment organic growth was 3.7%. Obviously, that was offset by the Aerospace Systems segment, their organic decline was 19.7%. So all in, that drove total organic sales to minus 1.0. Currency was a favorable impact this quarter of 2.2%. And just a note in respect to acquisitions, this is the first full quarter that we report both LORD and exotic in our organic growth numbers. So therefore, the acquisition impact was zero. Moving to segment operating margins, you saw the number, 21.4%, that's an improvement of 240 basis points from prior year. It's also an improvement of 130 basis points sequentially, strong margin performance there. And that really was a result of just broad-based execution of the Win strategy. We continue to manage our cost in a disciplined manner. The portfolio additions in CLARCOR, LORD and Exotic are all performing soundly. And you've all been familiar with the restructuring activities that we've done in FY 2020 and in FY 2021. Those are on track and on planned and generating the savings that we expected.Adjusted EBITDA margins did expand 250 basis points from prior year, finished the quarter at 21.8%. And net income is $540 million, which is a 14.4% ROS. That's increased by 22% from prior year. Adjusted EPS is $4.11 that is $0.72 or 21% increase compared to prior year's results of $3.39. And as Tom said, it's just really outstanding performance. And I'd also too like to commend our global team members for generating these results. If you slide to slide 12, this is really a bridge of that $0.72 increase in adjusted EPS versus prior year. And the story here across the board is just strong execution from all of our businesses. This produced robust incrementals in our Diversified Industrial segment and really commendable decrementals in the Aerospace Systems segment. Adjusted segment operating income did increase by $98 million or 14% versus prior year, that equates to $0.58 of EPS and really is the primary driver of the increase in our adjusted EPS number. Interest expense was favorable to prior by $0.12 as we posted yet another quarter of sizable repayment of our serviceable debt, and that is really benefiting from our strong cash flow generation. Other expense, income tax and shares netted to a $0.02 favorable impact compared to prior year.Moving to slide 13. This is just an update on our discretionary and permanent cost out actions. And this is just a reminder these represent both savings recognized in the current fiscal year from our discretionary actions in response to the pandemic and our permanent realignment actions that were taken at the end of FY 2020 and throughout FY 2021. Discretionary statements came in exactly as we guided, at $25 million for Q3, and now total $215 million year-to-date. There is no change to our discretionary savings forecast for Q4. That remains $10 million. And we continue to forecast the total year to be $225 million in full year savings. Just to note, with the increased demand levels that we're seeing from our positive order entry, our teams have really pivoted to growth and really now these discretionary actions that we knew would diminish across the calendar year have now really been based in reduced travel expenses. If you move to permanent savings, we realized $65 million in Q3. Our total year-to-date is $190 million. The full year forecast, again, here remains, as previously communicated, at $250 million.One item to note, we did guide that the cost of the FY 2021 restructuring would come in around $60 million. It's now expected to be $10 million less or $50 million but there is no change to the expected savings that we are forecasting. Total incremental impact for the year for both permanent and discretionary savings is $260 million. And just one other thing to note, this will probably be the last quarter that we detail these items as we anniversary the pandemic-induced volume declines and really focus our attention on growth. So the takeaway is savings are on track, no changes other than the expense will be a little bit less. If you go to slide 14, this is just highlighting some items from our segment performance for the third quarter. In our diversified North America business, sales were $1.76 billion. That is an improvement in organic sales sequentially from Q2. It still is down 1.2% from prior year, but if you look at the adjusted operating margins, we did increase those operating margins by 190 basis points versus prior year and reached 21.9% for the quarter. We were able to increase these margins despite that sales decline due to our disciplined cost management, those portfolio improvements we've talked about and really, margins in this segment are at a record level.If you slide over to order rates, another positive here, they improved significantly from plus one last quarter, and they're now ending the quarter at plus 11. Looking at the diversified industrial international sales, robust organic growth here of 11.1%. Total sales came in at $1.39 billion, and another great story here, adjusted operating margins expanded substantially and reached 21.6%, an improvement of 400 basis points versus prior year. Clearly, the double-digit organic growth, coupled with the cost containment and the effort from our global team really generated this level of record margin performance as well. And again, another plus here is order rates accelerated in this segment and are now plus 14% for the quarter.If you look at aerospace systems, they continue to really perform soundly in the current environment sales were $599 million for the quarter. Organic sales showed a slight sequential improvement from Q2, but are still down basically 20% from prior year. Commercial end markets are still under pressure. However, there is strength in our military end markets. What's nice here is operating margins were 19.4%, 30 basis points better than prior year, despite that 20% decline in volume. And if you look at our fiscal year, that performance of 19.4% is the highest they've done all year, so we're really proud about that. Decremental margins are also impressive here in this segment. This quarter, they're 18% decremental margins. Order rates appeared to have bottomed and finished at minus 19% for this quarter. And just a reminder, that is on a rolling 12-month basis. So overall, we're pleased about a number of things this quarter. That diversified industrial segment, organic growth of 3.7% as a positive. Total segment margins improved 240 basis points from prior year and at record levels. Orders have turned positive and are plus 6% and our teams really continue to leverage the Win Strategy to drive significant improvements in our business and increased productivity and generate strong cash flow.So with that, I'll ask you to go to slide 15. This is just some details on our cash flow. Year-to-date cash flow from operations is now $1.9 billion. That's 18.1% of sales. That's up 45% from prior year, and it is a year-to-date record. Improved net income margin, as we've talked about before, is really a key driver in this. It's created a step change in our cash flow generation, but I'd also like to commend our team members' intense focus on our working capital metrics. Each of our working capital metrics is improving and showing positive results, and I'm really proud about that. Moving to free cash flow at 16.8% of sales. That's an increase of 630 basis points over prior year, and our free cash flow conversion is now 141%, which compares to 1.22% in the prior year, so great cash flow generation there. Moving to slide 16, I just want to mention some things we've done on our capital deployment. We did pay down $426 million of debt this quarter. That brings our total debt reduction to a little over $3.2 billion in the last 17 months since the LORD acquisition closed. This reduced our gross debt-to-EBITDA to 2.4%, it was 3.8% in the prior year, and net debt-to-EBITDA is now 2.2%, and that's down from 3.5% in the prior year. Looking at dividends. Last week, you saw our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend increase of $0.15 or 17%. This raises our quarterly dividend from $0.88 to $1.03 per share and extends our record of increasing the annual dividends paid per share to 65 consecutive years. And finally, as we mentioned at the Q2 earnings release, we reinstated our 10b5 program and repurchased $50 million of shares in the quarter.All right. So if you go to slide 17, I'll just provide some color to the increase in guidance that we gave this morning, really, the strong year-to-date performance and these order trends. Have positioned us to increase our full year outlook for sales to a year-over-year increase of 4.5% at the midpoint and the breakdown of that sales change is this. Organic sales are now expected to be flat year-over-year. Acquisitions will add 3%, and the full year currency impact is expected to be 1.5%. We've calculated the impact of currency to spot rates as of the quarter ended March 31 and we held those rates constant to estimate the Q4 21 impact. Moving to segment operating margins. Our guidance for the full year is raised to 20.8% and that would equate to an increase of 190 basis points versus prior year. And just some additional color, some things to note. Corporate G&A, interest and other is expected to be $381 million on an as-reported basis and $479 million on an adjusted basis. The main difference between those two numbers is that $101 million pre-tax or $76 million after-tax gain on real estate that we recognized and adjusted in the other income line in Q2. That's the main item. If you look at our tax rates down just a little bit. We're now expecting the full year tax rate to be 22.5% and moving to EPS on a full year basis. Our as-reported EPS guidance range has increased from $12.96 to $13.26, that's $13.11 at the midpoint. And on an adjusted basis, we're increasing the range from $14.65 to $14.95, and that's $14.80 at the midpoint.For Q4, adjusted EPS is projected to be $4.18 per share, that excludes $0.54 or $93 million of acquisition-related amortization expense, the finishing of our business realignment expenses and integration cost to achieve. If you look at slide 18, this is just a bridge of our increase -- our adjust EPS guidance, these results that we just reviewed you can see the outperformance that we had in Q3. That increases our previous guide by $0.57. The order strength that we just reviewed and really the exceptional operation and execution by our teams have allowed us to increase Q4 guide by an additional $0.33, and that is exclusively based on increased segment operating income. This raises our full year EPS guide by about 6.5% from prior guide.And with that, I'll turn it over to Tom for some summary comments and ask you to move to slide 19.Thomas L. Williams -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Todd. So we've got a highly engaged team. You see that is what's driving our results, the ownership culture that we're building. Record performance in difficult times, these numbers are historical all-time highs for us and not the best of times. The convergence of positive inflection points, we feel it points to a very bright future. And the cash generation and deployment is evidenced by the rapid debt pay down, the acquisition performance. And our dividend increase, which I would just highlight the first time, we've ever been over at $1.03 on a quarterly dividend, which we're very proud of. So the Win Strategy 3.0 and our purpose statement is well positioned, in addition to those inflection points for a very strong future.I'll turn it back to Elaine for -- to start the Q&A.