  OperatorWelcome to the Q3 2021 Datadog earnings conference call. My name is Adrianne, and I'll be your operator for today's call. [Operator instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Yuka Broderick, head of investor relations. Yuka Broderick, you may begin.Yuka Broderick -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, Adrianne. Good evening, and thank you for joining us to review Datadog's third quarter 2021 financial results, which we announced in our press release issued after market close. Joining me on the call today are Olivier Pomel, Datadog's co-founder and CEO; and David Obstler, Datadog's CFO. During this call, we will make statements related to our business that are forward-looking under federal securities laws and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements related to our future financial performance, our outlook for the fourth quarter and the full year 2021, our strategy, the potential benefits of our products, partnerships, investments in R&D and go-to-market, our ability to capitalize on our market opportunity. The words anticipate, believe, continue, estimate, expect, intend, will, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements or similar indications of future expectations. These statements reflect our views only as of today and not as of any subsequent date. These statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. For a discussion of the material risks and other important factors that could affect our actual results, please refer to our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2021, filed with the SEC on August 6, 2021.Additional information will be made available in our quarterly report for -- on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2021, and other filings and reports that we may file from time to time with the SEC. Our filings with the SEC are available on the Investor Relations section of our website. A replay of this call will also be available there for a limited time. Non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on this conference call. Please refer to the tables in our earnings release, which you can find on the Investor Relations portion of our website for a reconciliation of these measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Olivier. Olivier Pomel -- Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Yuka, and thank you all for joining us this evening. We are extremely pleased with our performance in Q3, which was stronger than expected on robust growth with existing customers as well as strong new customer sales. We saw broad-based strength across product lines and across customer segments. Let me give you a quick summary of the quarter. Revenue was $270 million, an increase of 75% year over year, and above the high end of our guidance range. We ended the quarter with 1,800 customers with ARR of $100,000 or more, up from 1,082 in the year-ago quarter. These customers generated about 80% of our ARR. We have about 17,500 customers, which is up from about 13,100 last year. The leverage and efficiency of our business model is coming through with free cash flow of $57 million. And our dollar-based net retention rate continued to be over 130% as customers increase their usage and adopted on our products. At a high level, positive business trends over some quarters continued in Q3. Usage growth from existing customers was very strong this quarter across products. New logos ARR was robust with some large new deals closing and churn remains low and in line with historical rates. Taking all these factors into account, we had a record quarter of ARR added, and we crossed the milestone by exceeding $1 billion in ARR in Q3. Next, our platform strategy continues to resonate in the market. As of the end of Q3, 77% of customers are using 2 or more products, up from 71%, a year ago. Additionally, 31% of customers are now using four or more products, which is up from 20% last year. And this quarter, about 70% of new logos landed with two or more products. Most strikingly, our whole platform saw strong growth in the third quarter. At Pune, in particular, that all of our major products added a record amount of ARR during the quarter, but also that the year-over-year growth of infrastructure monitoring ARR on its own accelerated this quarter. And finally that our log management and APM suite, which includes Synthetics, reason monitoring and continuous profiler, remain in hyper-growth mode. Together in Q3, they exceeded $500 million in ARR. Now let's move on to product and R&D. Our teams continue to innovate at a rapid pace. We had 40 new product-related announcements in Q3, and we made many announcements last week at DASH, or annual user conference. You can review our DASH press releases as well as two nights earnings for further description. But to summarize this briefly, we announced the availability of CI visibility, session replay, funnel analysis, network device monitoring, digital apps, and all in archives for log management. We launched private betas for Cloud Cost Management, observability pipelines, universal service monitoring, and application security. And we also announced official Datadog support of the Vector open-source product. Now looking back at a couple of these announcements. Some of them will increase Datadog's usefulness for business personas. Users who are not engineers, and can benefit from all the data flowing to Datadog. With session replay and analysis, we believe support organizations, product designers, and product managers can get value from understanding user behavior and interactions with applications. And we expect Cloud Cost Management will be useful to anyone involved in understanding and controlling the expense of cloud implementations from engineering teams to product managers to finance teams. We are also advancing our efforts to support our customers with large-scale complex data needs. So I want to talk a bit, Vector, obsolete pipelines and Online Archives. Nine months ago, we acquired Timber, the developer of Vector. Vector is an open-source product that allows users to collect, enrich and transform useability data and automatic robotics to the decision of their choice. Our Observability pipelines product extends Vector and increased enterprise-level capabilities for its data pipelines, and the ability for users to seamlessly manage it from Datadog across both on-premise and -- in cloud accounts. Vector and observability pipelines let customers make value-based decisions on data as early as possible before they send data to Datadog or any other partner. We are always looking for ways to give customers more control over how they use their data and how they manage the cost of their cloud deployments. This is another step in that direction. And with online archives, we are aiming to solve the growing problem of storing all logs and being able to run complex historical investigations on them. Online Archives is an always-on log-warehousing solution that provides 15 months or more of extremely cost-effective storage and live-growing abilities. I also wanted to mention a database monitoring, which we announced for general availability in August, and which gives our customers deep visibility into the performance and execution of queries across all of their databases. Finally, as announced in the press release issued this evening, we acquired Ozcode, a live debugging solution for .NET applications, which lets developers solve problems in real time, whether in development or in production environments. It is another example of our growing push into developer workflows. So as you can tell, we were very busy in Q3. And I want to thank our engineering and product teams for their hard work and their relentless focus on our customers. Now moving on to sales and marketing. Our go-to-market teams continue to be very productive, and we added 1,100 net new customers this quarter. So let's review some of our Q3 wins. First, we had our largest deal ever by total contract value, and over $60 million 5-year upsell with a multinational financial services company. Our history of success with this customer has led to the use of 9 products, including early adoption of newer products such as RUM, Synthetics, and NPM. This customer began the second phase of their migration to the cloud and is standardizing on Datadog, adopting our newer products as we add them to our platform. Next, we had a six-figure land with a global fashion retailer based in Asia. These customers saw e-commerce sales increased dramatically during the pandemic, and they began to use Datadog after several outages resulted in missed sales. After a disappointing implementation of a competing solution, they chose Datadog APM across their global e-commerce sites and saw immediate improvement in stability. Next, we had a six-year land with a US-based professional sports league, which came in partnership with Google Cloud Platform. This customer experienced a large spike in application usage as funds are returning to games for in a pandemic, but they had no clients at monitoring and therefore, nowhere to analyze and optimize the user experience. With Datadog real user monitoring and Synthetics, along with infrastructure monitoring and APM, the customer now has a single solution to manage experience from front end to back end. Next, we had a seven-figure land with the advertising division of a Fortune 10 company. This company has very strict SLAs for their platform as their customers rely on always-on availability to adjust ad budgets in real time. After conducting a full evaluation of internal solutions and APM providers, this customer began using Datadog infrastructure monitoring and APM and are motivated to expand their use of our platform within the enterprise. Finally, we had a large six-figure land with a US distributor of plumbing and building equipment. This company needed to migrate from on-premise to Azure, and to deploy on Azure subunit services. But its existing APM solution had limited visibility into containers. With Datadog, this customer is able to effectively monitor the health of the Azure ecosystem, allowing them to confidently and efficiently complete migrations in retail legacy infrastructure. As you can see, our go-to-market teams had another quarter of strong execution. I want to thank them for once more successfully helping both new and existing customers to generate value from Datadog. Now moving on to our longer-term outlook. If you could not join us for our investor meeting last week, I encourage you to watch a video on the Investor Relations section of our website. At the meeting, we described our long-term opportunities, our differentiators, and the expansion of our platforms over the years. To summarize my bit of the presentation, we see digital transformation and cloud migration as large forces driving exponential growth. We believe Datadog helps solve the growing problem of managing complexity for our customers and that our open-ended unified platform, designed to be simple but not simplistic, is deployed everywhere and used by everyone at our customers and that it helps break down silos between teams. We believe it is still early days for our opportunity and observability. And while we have made a lot of progress in building out a broad observability platform, we still have much to do to solve all of our problems customer pain points. One next step for us is in security, with our cloud security platform. And we believe we have a part to play in breaking down silos between development, corporations, and security teams. But we're also making offers inroad in pure developer workflows with the general availability of CI Visibility. And we think over time, we have opportunities to help our customers in several other large adjacent markets as well. In other words, we are just getting started. With that, I would like to turn the call over to our CFO. David?David Obstler -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Olivier. In summary, we had a very strong Q3. Revenue was $270 million, up 75% year over year and up 16% quarter over quarter. Usage trends were strong and showed broad-based growth. Customers continuing to adopt more products across the platform, and new logo generation was also strong. To provide some more context. First, growth of existing customers was robust in Q3, and our dollar-based net retention rate remained above 130% for the 17th consecutive quarter. Usage growth was very strong, driven by customers' expanded usage of existing products and the adoption of new products. Our new customers from the last several quarters have expanded their usage quite rapidly, and we had some significant renewals with large customers in Q3. We also had a record quarter of ARR adds, including record ARR adds in all of our major products. And we saw strong growth across geographical regions, with all regions accelerated on a year-over-year basis compared to Q2. New logo results were also strong. Our enterprise and commercial sales teams had a crisp execution in this quarter, and new logo ARR was up strongly year over year. We continue to see opportunities broadly across industries and customer sizes. Remember that given our usage-based revenue model, new logo wins generally do not immediately translate into meaningful revenue. Next, our platform strategy continues to resonate with customers. And as we mentioned, 77% of our customers are now using two or more products, and 31% of our customers are using four or more products. And lastly, churn remained low and in line with historical levels. Our dollar-based gross retention rate remained unchanged in the mid-90s and is similar across all our customer segments and products. Turning to billings. The billings were $309 million, up 98% year over year. There were no pro forma impacts in the quarter. Note that we called out shorter-term billings duration in Q3 2020 last year. And billing duration in 3Q of this year is in line with recent quarters but is higher on a year-over-year basis, driving higher year-over-year billings growth. Remaining performance obligations, or RPO, was $719 million, up 127% year over year driven by strong sales activity, increased contract duration, and it was growing against an easier compare in the third quarter of last year. The increase in contract duration was driven by several large renewals with multiyear terms. As a reminder, multiyear commitments are built annually, and we don't incentivize our sales team toward multiyear deals. Current RPO growth was about 100% year over year as our mix shifted away from month-to-month deals to -- on a year-over-year basis more toward semiannual and annual. We continue to believe revenue is a better indicator of our business trends than billings and RPO as those can fluctuate relative to revenue based on the timing of invoicing and the duration of customer contracts. Now let's review the income statement in more detail. As a reminder, unless otherwise noted, all metrics are non-GAAP. We have provided a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financials in our earnings release. Starting with gross profit. Our gross profit in the quarter was $210 million, representing a gross margin of 78%. This compares to a gross margin of 76% last quarter and 79% in the year-ago quarter. Due to our continued efforts to drive efficiencies in cloud costs, we expect our gross margin to increase sequentially in Q4. In the mid- to long term, we expect gross margin to remain in the high-70s range, typical of our historical performance. R&D expense was $84 million or 31% of revenue compared to 30% in the year-ago quarter. We continue to invest significantly in R&D, including high growth in our engineering headcount. Sales and marketing expense was $65 million or 24% of revenue, compared to 32% in the year-ago quarter. We continue to see strong efficiencies with our frictionless land-and-expand selling motion. We also had relatively few in-person events in Q3, but we continue to plan for increased travel and events cost going forward depending on local health and travel guidelines. G&A expense was $17 million or 6% of revenues, compared to 8% in the year-ago quarter. Operating income was $44 million or a 16% operating margin compared to an operating income of $14 million or 9% in the year-ago quarter. We continue to invest heavily against the large and dynamic market opportunity we see in front of us. But our product innovation, coupled with a strong go-to-market effort and a frictionless land-and-expand model is driving strong revenue growth and business model efficiencies. Non-GAAP net income in the quarter was $44 million or $0.13 per share based on 344 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding. Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. We ended the quarter with $1.5 billion in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities. Cash flow from operations was $67 million in the quarter. After taking into consideration capital expenditures and capitalized software, free cash flow was $57 million for a free cash flow margin of 21%. Now for our outlook for the fourth quarter and the full year 2021. We remain highly optimistic about our long-term opportunities, and we continue to work hard to execute against these opportunities. Taking this into account with the usual conservatism applied, we are updating our guidance as follows. For the fourth quarter, we expect revenues to be in the range of $290 million to $292 million, which represents 64% year-over-year growth at the midpoint. Non-GAAP operating income is expected to be in the range of $38 million to $40 million, and non-GAAP net income per share is expected to be between $0.11 and $0.12 per share based on 347 million average diluted shares outstanding. For the full year 2021, revenue is expected to be in the range of 293 to -- sorry, $993 million to $995 million, which represents a 65% year-over-year growth at the midpoint. Non-GAAP operating income is expected to be in the range of $113 million to $135 million, and non-GAAP net income per share is expected to be in the range of $0.39 per share to $0.40 per share based on approximately 344 million weighted average shares outstanding. Now some notes on guidance. while usage growth remained strong in Q3, when providing guidance, as usual, we use more conservative assumptions. We would note that we typically see slower business activity toward the end of the fourth quarter as employees take vacations around the winter holidays. Next, our strategic focus remains to invest aggressively in R&D and go-to-market to optimize for the long-term growth, and our model assumes greater expenses related to travel and in-person events going forward. However, we will remain flexible depending upon local regulations and our highest priority is protecting the health of our employees. Regarding items below operating income, we expect approximately $0.7 million of Q4 non-GAAP net interest and other income, which includes interest income on our cash and marketable securities and the interest expense of our convertible debt. We do not expect to be a federal taxpayer but of a tax provision related to international entities. We expect that tax provision to be approximately $600,000 in Q4 and $2 million for the full year. And now to summarize, we are very pleased with the results of this quarter. Our platform is resonating in the marketplace, and we saw strong performance across our products in Q3. We continue to invest aggressively in R&D. And with the launch of database monitoring and CI Visibility, we now have 13 generally available products to offer our customers. Our execution against our go-to-market goals remain strong. And our ability to help our customers manage through their cloud migration and digital transformation efforts continues to expand. And with that, we will open up the call for questions. Operator, let's begin the Q&A. 