  OperatorGood morning, everyone, and welcome to the Lockheed Martin fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Greg Gardner, vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Greg Gardner -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, John, and good morning. I'd like to welcome everyone to our fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. Joining me today on the call are Jim Taiclet, our chairman, president, and chief executive officer; and John Mollard, our acting chief financial officer. Statements made in today's call that are not historical facts are considered forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of federal securities law. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Please see today's press release and our SEC filings for a description of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We have posted charts on our website today that we plan to address during the call to supplement our comments. These charts also include information regarding non-GAAP measures that may be used in today's call.Please access our website at www.lockheedmartin.com and click on the Investor Relations link to view and follow the charts. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Jim. Jim Taiclet -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Greg. Good morning, everyone, and I hope you've had a good start to the new year. Thank you for joining us on our fourth quarter 2021 earnings call as we review our results, key business area accomplishments, and our outlook for 2022. I'll begin with an update regarding our proposed acquisition of Aerojet Rocketdyne Holdings. As disclosed in our earnings release this morning, we thought it highly likely that the FTC would sue to block the transaction. Since that time, we have received notification from the FTC that they have, in fact, authorized filing a lawsuit. We will review the lawsuit and evaluate all of our options. With the filing of the suit, we may elect to defend the lawsuit or terminate the merger agreement. Moving on to our financial results. In a few minutes, John will discuss our financials in detail and provide our outlook for 2022, but I first would like to begin with a few highlights from the quarter and the year. In October, after we concluded our financial planning process, we established an updated forecast for 2021, which we achieved or exceeded. We met our $67 billion sales forecast, and our segment operating profit and earnings per share both exceeded our projections. Our cash from operations was exceptionally strong, over $9.2 billion, supporting our disciplined and dynamic capital allocation process. During the year, we made significant investments in our signature platforms and systems, as well as emerging technologies, all to meet the rapidly evolving challenges, as we see every day in the news now, the challenges that our customers are facing, and to support future growth for the benefit of our shareholders. Moreover, we continue reshaping and modernizing our operations to increase efficiencies and reduce costs so we can deliver affordable solutions for our customers going forward as well. During 2021, we spent $1.5 billion on independent research and development, a new high watermark for the company.

 



 Notable areas of our IR&D efforts included hypersonics, directed energy, and artificial intelligence. We also initiated the development of mission-based technology road maps and advanced our 5G.MIL architecture to truly enable joint all-domain operations across multiple platforms, U.S. military services, and allies. These investments position the company to meet our customers' most critical needs well into the future. During the year, we also spent $1.5 billion on capital expenditures, focused on addressing customers' program requirements and supporting our organic growth outlook. Significant capital projects included the introduction of three new state-of-the-art factories of the future, additional adoption of cutting-edge software and hardware solutions to enable model-based engineering throughout the company, and the establishment of production facilities to support our key hypersonics program. During the fourth quarter, we brought many of these elements together for the opening of an intelligent advanced hypersonic strike production facility in Cortland, Alabama, supporting both our Missiles and Fire Control and Space hypersonic programs. This facility integrates critical digital transformation advancements such as robotic thermal protection capabilities into our manufacturing operations and represents our long-term investment in this critical technology. The Cortland facility joins our new Spacecraft, Test, Assembly, and Resource Center in Titusville, Florida and our recently opened 215,000 square foot advanced manufacturing facility in our Skunk Works organization in Palmdale, California. Together, these facilities add to our intelligent factory framework, digitally linking sites and assets across the enterprise to speed production, provide cost efficiency and drive future margin improvements throughout the company. From a capital return perspective, during the quarter, we executed a $2 billion accelerated share repurchase program and thereby retired nearly 6 million shares under that agreement. This brought our total 2021 repurchase amount to over $4 billion, which when coupled with our strong dividend payments, resulted in a total of $7 billion of cash returned to our shareholders during the year. We will continue to be opportunistic with share repurchases and expect to utilize our remaining $4 billion authorization in 2022. I'll now touch briefly on the Department of Defense budgets. This quarter, Congress passed the fiscal year 2022 National Defense Authorization Act with strong bipartisan support in both the House and Senate. The NDAA policy bill was subsequently signed into law by President Biden. This legislation authorizes a $25 billion increase for the Department of Defense for a total of approximately $740 billion for defense programs and raised the investment accounts approximately 8% above the President's originally requested amounts. Currently, the DOD is operating under a continuing resolution through February 18 for FY 2022. As Congress continues the appropriations process, we believe our programs are well supported, reflecting the fact that our portfolio is aligned with affordably delivering our customers' national security capabilities. Now turning now to our growth strategy. Last quarter, we discussed our long-term expectations, which anticipate that our sales will increase by approximately 2% in 2023 with steadily increasing sales growth through 2026. As we discussed in October, the four primary areas that underpin this longer-term growth forecast are programs of record, classified activities, hypersonics, and new business awards. Expansion in our program of records is a clear key pillar of our long-term growth strategy. In this quarter, we are pleased to see two new customers select our signature programs to support their national security objectives. Last month, the government of Finland selected the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter as the winning entry in their HX Fighter Program competition, citing the aircraft's affordability, as well as its combat reconnaissance and survival capabilities, as best suited to deliver on the HX requirements. This announcement for 64 conventional takeoff and landing stealth fighters has a potential contract value of over $9 billion and follows Switzerland's decision to purchase 36 F-35s. These announcements highlight the momentum that is building in this program with future international opportunities in Canada and elsewhere to go in front of us. Our Rotary and Mission Systems team also secured an important international opportunity this past quarter as the Israeli Air Force signed a letter of acceptance with the United States government to pursue the Sikorsky CH-53K King Stallion heavy-lift helicopter. This agreement enables the Israeli Air Force to procure 12 53Ks with the option to buy another half dozen. If fully exercised, those options could exceed $2 billion in value. Israel will then be our first international CH-53K customer as they look to replace their current fleet of legacy Sikorsky CH-53 helicopters, which have been flying over 50 years. Another pillar of our long-term growth strategy, our classified activities, also saw momentum build in the fourth quarter. Our Space business area was awarded a contract by the U.S. Air Force to develop and classify -- fly a prototype RF payloads in space. Our solution leverages ongoing internal investments on our LM-400 satellite bus, providing greater mission flexibility and longer-duration orbit life. This award for initial engineering contract includes options to deliver an operational system with the potential for this to grow into a new franchise program down the road. And on a final note, 2021 presented a challenging environment for both commercial and defense industries, especially in terms of continuing COVID-19 effects and supply chain impacts. Our teams in all four Lockheed Martin business areas and across our corporate functions banded together and did a tremendous job maintaining our production operations and advancing science and engineering on behalf of our customers. I'm extremely proud of the perseverance and dedication of our entire organization, and I know that as One Lockheed Martin, we're going to drive future growth into our business and advance our vision to accelerate 21st century digital world technologies into our national defense enterprise. And with that, I'll turn the call over to John and join you later to answer your questions.John Mollard -- Acting Chief Financial Officer All right. Thanks, Jim, and good morning, everyone. As I highlight our results, please follow along with the web charts we've included with our earnings release today. Let's begin with Chart 3 and an overview of 2021 results. Starting with sales, we recorded revenue of $67 billion, which was consistent with the guidance we provided in October. This record level of sales was made possible by an exceptionally strong fourth quarter of delivering affordable, relevant solutions to our customers. Additionally, our segment operating profit of $7.4 billion and earnings per share of $22.76 exceeded our October projections driven by strong operational performance across the entire portfolio. We generated more than $9.2 billion in operating cash flow this year. And as we discussed last quarter, we are committed to a strategy of disciplined and dynamic capital allocation. We continue reshaping our operations and identifying ways we can increase efficiencies and reduce costs. As Jim mentioned, we invested $3 billion in research and development and capital expenditures to help our customers achieve their missions and to drive organic growth. In addition to this internal reinvestment, we repurchased over $4 billion of shares in 2021, including $2.1 billion in the fourth quarter. Combined with increased annual dividend payments of approximately $3 billion, we returned just over $7 billion to shareholders. Looking forward, our outlook for 2022 remains consistent with our October trending information as we build our foundation for growth in 2023 and beyond. Turning to Chart 4, we compare our sales and segment operating profit this year with last year's results. Sales and segment operating profit both increased 3% compared to 2020 results and represent high watermarks for the company. Chart 5 shows our earnings per share for the year. Our full year earnings per share of $22.76 incorporates the $4.72 noncash charge associated with the $4.9 billion pension liability transfer that we completed during the third quarter. On an adjusted basis, our pre-transaction EPS of $27.48 was 12% higher than our 2020 results due to increased volume and improved segment operating margin, gains in our Lockheed Martin Ventures portfolio, increased FAS/CAS pension income, and a reduction in share count. On Chart 6, we look at our full year cash generation and deployment. 2021 cash performance was outstanding as we generated over $9.2 billion in operating cash flow and $7.7 billion in free cash flow. We returned 91% of this free cash flow to our shareholders through increased share repurchases and dividends. Our remaining share repurchase authority is approximately $4 billion, and we expect to opportunistically deploy that entire amount in 2022. Moving on to Chart 7 and our 2022 guidance. Consistent with our October trending information, we estimate 2022 sales at approximately $66 billion and segment operating profit of approximately $7.2 billion, resulting in a segment operating margin of 10.9%. FAS/CAS pension income is projected at $2.26 billion, which is $60 million higher than the $2.2 billion estimate we provided in October. We are projecting earnings per share of $26.70, and our estimate for 2022 cash from operations remains at greater than or equal to $8.4 billion excluding the impacts of the R&D capitalization tax law change, which we now estimate at approximately $500 million. I should mention there is still a possibility that legislation will be enacted that defers or refuels the requirement to capitalize R&D expenditures from a tax payment perspective, but we are including the impact of higher tax payments in our current outlook as we will be required to make these payments, unless existing law is amended by legislation. On Chart 8, we show our updated three-year forecast for cash generation. Our outstanding fourth quarter cash flow was driven by a tightly coordinated collections process across all business areas and functional support organizations, leading to exceptional collection results from both domestic and international customers. Partially offsetting this upside was an increase of $700 million in accelerated payments we made to our supply chain during the fourth quarter. With the emergence of the omicron variant and surges in COVID cases, we increased total accelerated payments to over $2.2 billion at year end and are continuing effort to mitigate supply chain risk. Our outstanding collection performance and the increase in accelerated payments to our supply chain partners resulted in our generating $9.2 billion in cash from operations and $7.7 billion in free cash flow. Over the three-year period from 2021 through 2023 and before considering the potential impacts of R&D capitalization, we now project total cash from operations of greater than or equal to $26.1 billion, which is $900 million higher than our prior estimate. This increase was driven by our fourth quarter results and our expectation that we will maintain this extremely high level of performance throughout the forecast period. Generating over $25 billion in operating cash flow after incorporating the potential $900 million impact of R&D capitalization provides significant support for our disciplined and dynamic capital allocation strategy. On Chart 9, we break out our sales and segment operating profit outlook by business areas. Our estimates for the year remain consistent with the trending information we provided in October as we focus on long-term growth opportunities and building on the strong operational results we delivered in the fourth quarter. And on Chart 10 to summarize, we successfully closed out 2021 with all metrics equal to or better than the guidance we provided in October, highlighted by exceptional cash generation. With our strong balance sheet and our demonstrated ability to generate high levels of operating cash flow, we are well-positioned to execute on our disciplined and dynamic capital allocation strategy for years to come. I'm excited about our opportunities in 2022 as we deliver mission capabilities for our customers and long-term value for our shareholders. And with that, John, we're ready to begin the Q&A.  