  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Vornado Realty Trust third quarter 2021 earnings call. My name is Vanessa, and I will be your operator for today's call. This call is being recorded for replay purposes. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the call over to Ms. Cathy Creswell, director of investor relations. Please go ahead.Cathy Creswell -- Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you. Welcome to Vornado Realty Trust third quarter earnings call. Yesterday afternoon, we issued our third quarter earnings release and filed our quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents, as well as our supplemental financial information package, are available on our website, www.vno.com, under the Investor Relations section. In these documents and during today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in our earnings release, Form 10-Q, and financial supplement. Please be aware that statements made during this call may be being forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially from these statements due to a variety of risks, uncertainties, and other factors. Please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, for more information regarding these risks and uncertainties.The call may include time-sensitive information that may be accurate only as of today's date. The company does not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements. On the call today from management for our opening comments are Steven Roth, chairman and chief executive officer; and Michael Franco, president and chief financial officer. Our senior team is also present and available for questions. I will now turn the call over to Steven Roth.  

 



Steven Roth -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Cathy, and good morning, everyone. I begin by saying that I am feeling quite optimistic about the economy, about New York City, and about our business. New York City is recovering rapidly. The apartment market is a case in point. It suffered a vicious decline to 70% occupancy. Nothing like that, nothing even close to that has ever happened before, as renters gave up their apartments in the work-from-anywhere period to now having recovered to pre-COVID occupancies at even higher than pre-COVID rents. This will go down as the most rapid V-shaped rebound in history. Public transit utilization rates are picking up and public transportation is, of course, the lifeblood of the city. Restaurants and sporting venues are literally jam-packed and Broadway and other cultural venues have reopened. With travel restrictions coming off this month, international tourists will be returning. We can see increased automobile and pedestrian traffic everywhere. Vaccination rates among office workers are at high levels.

 



 I'm guessing around 90%. We're hearing unanimously that our tenants want their employees back in the office. COVID-19 has been climbing. And this week, we are now at 43%. I must admit that our tenants and we are a little frustrated at how long the return-to-work process is taking, but there is no doubt that work in office will win over work alone at the kitchen table. Key things we are hearing every day are health, wellness, culture, collaboration, purpose, productivity, socialization, all under the mantra of it's time to get back to work. While the timing of complete return to the office and each company's hybrid plan are still unknowable, it is clear to me that the office is still and will be the center of work and of success. Importantly, our business is rebounding on a trajectory of recovery and return to growth. Michael will cover our operating results in a few moments. We had a very good quarter and feel good about the trend line for the future. Many companies throughout the economy are experiencing a significant post-COVID pickup in activity, and we are as well. Glen and his team are as busy as they have ever been with deals in all of our assets. Citywide, third quarter leasing volume reached its highest level since 2019. Our tenants tour activity and the volume of leasing proposals we are working on, particularly large proposal, is robust as companies are thriving and clearly looking to grow, and this heightened activity demonstrates the importance of the office to their businesses. The dominance of New York, its infrastructure and scale, and its deep, talented, and diverse workforce continue to give New York a dramatic competitive advantage. In particular, the tech sector continues to be voracious in their appetite for space in our submarkets. And New York has clearly emerged as the second-largest and second most important tech hub in the country. Our activities in the Penn District are full steam ahead, here's the latest. At Farley, we are targeting opening The Fuller hall on the Ninth Avenue entrance by year end. Facebook's tenant work is proceeding with first employee occupancy scheduled for second quarter 2022. At the Moynihan Train Hall, we have completed 22 retail leases. We are gratified and validated that Starbucks reports that its Moynihan -- its new Moynihan store is trending No. 1 out of its 190 Manhattan locations. In Penn Station, our Long Island Rail Road Concourse construction is about one-third complete. We will now own both sides of this heavily traffic concourse. It will be a big win for us. The 34th Street, half of the PENN1 lobby is open and it is spectacular. Come take a look. Our unique three-level, world-class amenity offering will open shortly, and the other half of the PENN1 lobby which fronts our 33rd Street will be completed end of first quarter 2022. At PENN2, our full building transformation is well underway, on schedule, and on budget. The job is largely bought out. The demolition of Hotel Penn will begin this month, creating the best development site in the city. Both office and retail tenant interest is high the Penn District with multiple large office users now focused on PENN2. Let me review again our Penn District financing plan. Capital required to complete Farley PENN1 and PENN2 is about $1 billion before TIs and that will be paid for entirely from our cash on balance sheet. Further, Farley, PENN1, and PENN2 are free and clear, unencumbered by any mortgage debt whatsoever. And most importantly, as these great assets come online, they will produce, say, $200 million of incremental additional annual earnings. The Manhattan retail market has bottomed. It will take some time for rents to start rising again, but leasing activity and tenant inquiries are certainly picking up as residents, office workers and tourists return to the city. New York is still a most favorite location for retailers who are on top of their game. Of particular note is our recently announced deal with Wegmans, the premier grocer in our region at 770 Broadway, the Facebook building, replacing Kmart, and that's some big uptick. We also completed retail deals in this quarter with luxury, banks, and food tenants. We have now completed the retail retenanting of 595 Madison Avenue, The Fuller Building, with luxury tenants Fendi and Berluti, both LVMH brands, and Krystal and Stefano Ricci. As you know, we sold three Madison Avenue street retail assets this quarter and are contracted to sell two SoHo street retail assets in the first quarter of 2022. We still believe in high street retail and believe demand, rents, and activity have bottomed. I'm happy to go into detail and the whys and the wherefores of these sales in Q&A. We reaffirm the updated guidance of our retail business discussed in our last earnings call. For 2021, we still expect to do a little better than cash NOI of $135 million. For 2022, the guidance is cash NOI of $160 million. After 2023, we guided cash NOI of not less than $175 million. Last year, the topic du jour was rent collections. You should know that rent collections are now and have been for a while at essentially 100%. Collections on the limited number of rent deferrals that we granted during the crisis are also running at essentially 100%. The topic du jour today is tenant-employee occupancy rates. Companywide, this week, we are now at 43%, and that rate has been growing nicely since the summer. We are able to harvest lots of information about usage as employees wedge in and many other operating statistics from our building level technology. Our buildings population by -- our building is populated by financial types, market makers and traders, enjoy occupancy in the 70. Another factoid, the busiest day of each week is Wednesday. And another factoid, the number of unique individual employees who came to work in the month of October was 61%. Finally, let me spend a minute on sustainability where we can continue to be the leader. Vornado was recently selected as a global sector leader for all office retail diversified respondent in the 2020 Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark, or GRESB -- or the GRESB survey. Our GRESB score of 94 was our highest total score to date. We also placed second out of 94 publicly listed real estate companies in the Americas who responded to GRESB, including most of our office peers. Kudos to Dan Egan and his team for their leadership. Thank you. Now to Michael. Michael Franco -- President and Chief Financial Officer  Thank you, Steve, and good morning, everyone. I will start with our third quarter financial results and then end with a few comments on the leasing and capital markets. With the recovery in New York City occurring, as Steve described in his opening remarks, so is our business and financial results. Third quarter comparable FFO as adjusted was $0.71 per share, compared to $0.61 for last year's third quarter, an increase of $0.10 or 16%. The increase would have been 26%, but for the once every three-year Mart real estate tax increase which is largely reimbursed by tenants next year, sort of a timing issue, if you will. We have provided a quarter-over-quarter bridge in our earnings release on Page 5 and our financial supplement on Page 7. The increase was driven by the following items: $0.10 from tenant-related activities, including $0.06 from the commencement of new leases and $0.04 from the nonrecurrence of straight-line rent and tenant receivable write-offs impacting the prior period; $0.04 from the continued improvement in our variable businesses; $0.02 from the acquisition of our partner's 45% interest in One Park Avenue in August; and $0.02 from lower G&A, resulting from our overhead reduction program last December. The total of these increases is partially offset by the following decreases: $0.06 from the already mentioned real estate tax expense accrual due to an increase in the triennial tax assessed value of the Mart, which, as I said, will be largely billed back to tenants beginning of January 2022; and $0.02 from an increase in other miscellaneous expenses, primarily related to our new preferred issuance, partially offset by interest expense savings. Our third quarter comparable results are ahead of the 2020 fourth quarter run rate we discussed at the beginning of the year and on our last earnings call, as is our expectation for this year's fourth quarter. We have several noncomparable items in the quarter as well, which totaled about $0.11 per share of income. With respect to our variable businesses, we are continuing to see a recovery as the city returns to normal. Signage is picking up nicely with healthy bookings continuing in the fourth quarter. BMS is now performing near pre-pandemic levels, our garages should be fully back in 2022. And finally, a number of trade shows have successfully taken place, albeit with lower attendance, primarily due to travel restrictions. Other than Hotel Penn's income, we still expect to recover most of the income from our variable businesses next year with the full return in 2023. Companywide same-store cash NOI for the third quarter increased by 2.8% over the prior year's third quarter and would have been 8.1%, but for the aforementioned additional real estate tax expense at the Mart during the quarter. Our core New York Office business was up 7.6%. Our retail same-store cash NOI was up 14.2%, primarily due to the rent commencement on new leases at 595 Madison Avenue and 4 Union Square South and lower real estate taxes. Our office occupancy ended the quarter at 91.6%, up 50 basis points from the second quarter, which we believe represented the bottom for our office occupancy. We expect this figure to keep moving up from here based on leases we have out for signature and in negotiation. Retail occupancy was consistent with the second quarter at 77.2%. Now turning to the leasing markets. New York leasing volume reached its highest volume since the onset of the pandemic with more than 7 million square feet leased during the quarter. Employment growth continues its upward trajectory. Asking rents and concessions have stabilized for high-quality buildings, even improving in some submarkets and sublease space has begun to be absorbed or removed. The theme of flight to quality has continued. Quality of the asset, strength of the landlord, and access to transportation, all continue to be main focus for tenants coming out of the pandemic, and we are a major beneficiary given the quality of our portfolio and the capital we invested over the past 10 years to redevelop our assets. Notably, 65% of the deal volume in the city was new in expansion leases, led by 15 deals in excess of 50,000 square feet. The majority of leasing action is being driven by the tech and financial service industries, which accounted for 60% of all activity. We enjoyed a solid third quarter, signing 27 office leases totaling 757,000 square feet, with average starting rents of $77 per square foot and positive GAAP and cash mark-to-market of 4.2% and 1.4%, respectively. The highlight for the quarter, which also happened to be the largest lease done in the market, was an early lease renewal with Interpublic Group for 514,000 square feet at 100 West 33rd Street. This important transaction reaffirms IPG's commitment to the Penn District and resolves what was our largest 2023 expiration. Importantly, we also executed on a full floor expansion with Google at 85 10th Avenue, increasing their total footprint in the building to just under 300,000 square feet. Our buildings which cater to financial service users continue to thrive. During the quarter, deals we completed include 52,000 square feet at 280 Park Avenue, 37,000 square feet at 888 7th Avenue, and 19,000 square feet at 650 Madison Avenue. We are busy across our portfolio with more to come. Our leasing pipeline is very strong. We have 1 million square feet of leases in negotiation with an additional 1.5 million square feet trading paper or in advanced discussions. Our office expirations are very modest for the remainder of 2021 and 2022, with only 936,000 square feet expiring in total, representing only 5% of the portfolio, and 189,000 of the square feet is in PENN1 and PENN2. 2023 office expirations totaled 1.5 million square feet, of which 350,000 is in PENN1 and PENN2. This total is down significantly since last quarter due to the Interpublic Group lease renewal. Retail leasing activity in the third quarter included 10 leases, totaling 111,000 square feet, with average starting rents of $110 per square foot and positive GAAP and cash mark-to-market of 45.3% and 19.6%, respectively. The largest transaction for the quarter was the previously announced 82,500 square foot lease signed with Wegmans at 770 Broadway. In addition, we completed the lease-up of the retail to Fuller Building with a lease to Stefano Ricci, giving us four luxury retailers there with new long-term deals and reflecting the recovering market for the best locations. We also completed deals with Citibank at One Park and Capital One at 731 Lexington, reflecting the return of the banks to the marketplace. Finally, a word on the capital markets. The investment sales market is picking up again with a couple of recent strong office sales in addition to several other assets now in the market. Investor interest in New York is clearly rebounding as they see the city has bottomed and find the relative value compelling. On the debt side, pricing in the financing markets is as tight as we've ever seen and we continue to be active in refinancing our debt to take advantage of the low rates. In September, we also took advantage of the tighter preferred market to refinance our $300 million, 5.7% perpetual preferred shares with a 4.45% issuance of the same size, a very attractive rate for Forever money. Finally, our current liquidity is a strong $4.443 billion, including $2.268 billion of cash and restricted cash and $2.175 billion undrawn under our $2.75 billion revolving credit facilities. With that, I'll turn it over to the operator for Q&A.  