
OperatorGood day and welcome to the Centene Corporation Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Michael Neidorff, Chairman, CEO, and President. Please go ahead, sir.Jennifer Gilligan -- Senior Vice President, Finance & Investor RelationsThis is Jen. Thank you, Rocco, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on our second quarter 2021 earnings results conference call. Michael Neidorff, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer; and Andrew Asher, Executive Vice President, and Chief Financial Officer of Centene will host this morning's call, which also can be accessed through our website at centene.com.Any remarks that Centene may make about future expectations, plans, and prospects constitute forward-looking statements for the purpose of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by those forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in Centene's most recent Form 10-Q, filed today and the Form 10-K, dated February 22, 2021, and other public SEC filings, including the risks and uncertainties described with respect to the potential impacts of COVID-19 on our business and results of operation. Centene anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause its estimates to change. While the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so.The call will also refer to certain non-GAAP measures, a reconciliation of these measures with the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our second quarter 2021 press release, which is available on the Company's website under the Investors section. Additionally, please mark your calendars for our third quarter earnings conference call to be held on Tuesday, October 26.With that, I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman, President and CEO, Michael Neidorff.Michael Neidorff -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jennifer. Good morning and thank you for joining Centene's second quarter earnings call. You've heard me say, we make decisions based on the facts as they are today. And today with the continued rise in the highly virulent Delta strain of COVID-19, I must open our call with similar comments to those made this time last year.The environment has changed again in just the last week or so, and the Delta variant is causing a new wave of pandemic. It's a pandemic of the unvaccinated. According to a leading epidemiologist, our team has been working with for the past 18 plus months, the Delta variant has 1,260 times greater concentration in respiratory material than the original variant. An individual infected with the Delta strain can spread the virus to an average of five to eight individuals, up from an average of 2.4 individuals from the original strain.83% of the COVID cases today in the U.S. are Delta, up from 10% just a month ago. Hospitalizations were up 57% in the last month. The death have increased by 19% in the last week alone. And importantly, 97% of people currently hospitalized with COVID-19 are unvaccinated, and 95.5% -- 99.5% of the COVID-related deaths are among the un-vaccinated.Our additional concern because of the high concentration in respiratory droplet, this variant seems to be transmissible or transmittable among children and is more dangerous than the original virus. It is clear that one of the issues we must address is vaccine hesitancy, to stop the transmission of this virus and to protect those who cannot safely receive the inoculation, including our young children. The variant is real, and we are taking it very seriously. You have seen us execute strongly throughout the pandemic, and that will not change, especially as it remains clear that the pandemic is not over and the environment could remain choppy for the balance of the year.Turning to our second quarter performance. Results met our expectations and were consistent with the update we provided in mid-June. We generated revenue of $31 billion, an increase of 12% compared to the year ago quarter. Adjusted diluted earnings per share was a $1.25 versus $2.40 last year. As a reminder, last year's utilization rate in the second quarter was significantly lower as a result of the pandemic.We ended the quarter with membership of 25.4 million, as several tailwinds we have previously discussed remain in place. These include the suspension of redetermination, which we expect will continue into 2022, and we are aware recessions extending beyond that into 2023. We continue to participate in an active RFP pipeline.In addition, we are pleased that the Missouri Supreme Court unanimously upheld the will of the people, and that Medicaid will be expanded in Missouri. We have been preparing for expansion for months and are fully prepared to bring healthcare access to hundreds of thousands of citizens here in our home state of Missouri.Additionally, yesterday, North Carolina announced the winners of the tailored Health Plan Awards. We are pleased that our provider-led entity Carolina Complete Health with the North Carolina Medical Society was selected to work with two of the OMEs, and our health plan WellCare in North Carolina was selected to work with three others.In Medicare, we delivered another quarter of healthy growth with membership growing approximately 25% since the beginning of the year. In addition, preparations are well underway for open enrollment beginning this fall. In market place, we added a net 110,000 lives since the beginning of the year, while typically, we would have lost members during this period, this represents 6% growth.To this point, Medicaid and Medicare are performing very well and are continuing to normalize in line with our expectations. We talked last month about the dynamics in the marketplace business, where we are witnessing continuing COVID- related cost and increased non-COVID utilization, which we believe is still largely driven by some pent-up demand.Drew will provide additional details on non-COVID utilization. Although this is impacting our margins in the short-term, we continue to view this environment as transitory, driven by the various dynamics of the pandemic. Importantly, where possible these trends have been factored into our pricing and strategy for 2022.Overall, we remain confident in the long-term opportunity of our marketplace business. We expect to continue to offer a competitive product and to be in a strong position as the leading provider, and as you look at the healthy growth across our portfolio today, you can see we have the size, scale, and strength to continue to execute on our objectives.With the first half of the year behind us, we are maintaining our full-year 2021 adjusted EPS. This reflects the underlying strength of our business and our demonstrated ability to manage through a dynamic environment. We will continue to provide you transparent updates as the second half of the year unfolds.We remain focused on our business and we continue to make progress against the margin expansion goals we outlined last month. While we are at the beginning of this process, I'm encouraged to see strong alignment across our enterprise and initial transit -- traction toward these goals as Drew will discuss.We are also making progress on the Magellan acquisition, and remain on track to close on the deal in the second half of 2021, having received Justice Department approval and approval in all but one state.Before I hand the call over to Drew to discuss our results in more detail, I'd like to reiterate a few points that I touched on today. First, the Delta wave of the COVID-19 pandemic is creating a new set of dynamics, particularly for the unvaccinated. We are taking this very seriously and watching the short-term impact on our business. As a healthcare company, our absolute priority is to ensure our members, employees, and communities are healthy, and we are making every effort to provide our members and workforce with opportunities to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. We have made outreach phone calls to nearly 9.5 million members to support them in accessing the vaccine, created PSAs that will air on 160 TV stations across the country, and directly participated in over 80 vaccination events.In addition, our teams have formed innovative partnerships with organizations including NASCAR [Phonetic], the Pro Football Hall of Fame, Walmart, LYFT and the White House to increase awareness and accessibility of the vaccine. We also continue to evaluate when we can safely return to in-person work, and are ensuring that our office return-to-work timeline gives employees sufficient time to receive the COVID-19 vaccine.I want to make you aware that this still may not be enough, and if we do not effectively manage this strain, the next one could be even worse, and there may be a need for vaccination requirement implementation by government and industry.As we have done for the past year and a half, we will continue to manage through the dynamic landscape, and we'll provide you with transparent updates based on the information as we see and know. Our size and scale enables us to navigate an evolving environment as we pursue growth, and most importantly, margin expansion. Together with our margin expansion goals, our capital allocation priorities discussed at our June Investor Day, remain in place.Thank you for your continued interest and support of Centene. I will now hand the call over to Drew.Andrew Asher -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Michael. This morning, we reported second quarter 2021 results of $31 billion in revenue, an increase of 12% compared to the second quarter of 2020 and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.25.Before I get into the Q2 earnings drivers and insights, let's start with revenue. Total revenue grew by $3.3 billion compared to the second quarter of 2020, due to Medicaid membership growth, resulting from the ongoing suspension of eligibility redeterminations, strong membership growth in the Medicare business, and our late 2020 acquisition of PANTHERx. Total membership increased to 25.4 million, up 3% compared to a year ago.While I will touch on all of our major business lines, the primary topic to cover for the quarter and the full-year outlook is the marketplace business. Recall we gave an update at our June Investor Day regarding a few of the negative drivers in April and May for this line of business. Our Q2 consolidated HBR was 88.3%, which was higher than our expectation, driven by the marketplace business. Let me provide an update on the three marketplace pressure points we covered at Investor Day.Number 1, as a reminder, we incurred a $175 million or $0.22 headwind compared to our prior expectations in the second quarter related to the 2020 risk adjustment year. For the 2021 risk adjustment year, we received Wakely data in June and it was largely consistent with our expectations of shifting from being in a large payable position for 2020 to a slight receivable position for 2021. Number 2, COVID costs. We previously provided insight that while COVID costs were falling from Q1, they were still higher on an absolute basis from what we had forecasted in April and May. We saw the COVID cost continue to decline in June consistent with our expectation, but we will be watching external trends closely as COVID costs could reverse course and increase based upon macro COVID trends as Michael indicated.Number 3, pent-up demand. As previously disclosed, March and April marketplace results were impacted by a broad return to the doctor's office in the outpatient setting, after which we saw a slight utilization downtick in May. We had expected a continued down draft in June and the remainder of the year. Instead, June marketplace medical cost trended higher compared to May. We now expect pent-up demand to subside at a slower rate in the back half of 2021. The activity is in the area of outpatient services for continuing members as well as members who are new to us in 2021 with a higher cost per claim due to mix of services as these member cohorts access healthcare. And, though our SCP members only represent 20% of our membership, we are also seeing higher non-COVID related inpatient utilization for this cohort, who now has access to healthcare due to the expanded SCP rules. We expect these recently added SCP members to return to expected levels of utilization after initially accessing services.Our team has isolated the heavier utilizing cohorts through our real-time data and is taking action where possible, including a slate of clinical initiatives designed to improve quality and curb trend. However, we do expect a higher HBR in marketplace to drive the consolidated 2021 HBR, as we will cover in a minute, since some of the deferred demand will just have to work its way through the system during 2021.The remainder of our business as a whole performed consistent with our expectations In Q2. In Medicaid, we're seeing strong performance and a steady march toward normalized utilization, with this benefit largely offset by state rate actions and risk corridors. In Q1, we disclosed $550 million of such actions for 2021. This annual view increased in Q2 to $675 million. In Medicare Advantage, we continue to grow during the year and we see a similar trend toward normal utilization. We have grown membership organically 25% since 12/31/2020.Moving to other P&L and balance sheet items. Our adjusted SG&A expense ratio was 7.7% in the second quarter compared to 8.5% last year and 8.1% in the first quarter of 2021. The adjusted SG&A expense ratio benefited from lower short-term variable compensation costs and the leveraging of expenses over higher revenues due to increased Medicaid membership and recent acquisitions. This was partially offset by increased sales and marketing cost as a result of the marketplace SCP and growth in Medicare.Let me go deeper into the first item, since it's important for you to understand drivers. Think of the HBR pressure caused by our marketplace business and our short-term variable compensation as somewhat offsetting toggles, you'll also see this in our full-year guidance elements. If the deferred demand bubble in marketplace causes us to land toward the high end of our consolidated HBR guidance range, we would be toward the low end of our SG&A range because of a reduction in our short-term incentive plan for 2021. Think of this as a potential 35 basis point swing in those metrics. On the other hand, if pent-up demand and high new member utilization settles quickly and we come in toward the bottom of our HBR range, we would incur typical short-term incentives, which would have a corresponding effect of putting us toward the top of our SG&A range, and the outcome could be in between those bookend scenarios.While we recognize the current challenges and marketplace, we have implemented a slate of mitigating initiatives, including operational, clinical, and available pricing actions. Current performance does not change our perspective as we look out to our long-term margin goals.Continuing on highlights of the quarter. Cash flow provided by operations was $1.7 billion in the second quarter, primarily driven by net earnings before the legal settlement reserve, which is expected to be paid in future periods. We continue to maintain a strong liquidity position of $1.1 billion of unregulated cash on our balance sheet at quarter-end. Approximately $700 million of that was deployed on July 1st, as we completed the acquisition of the remainder of Circle Health. Recall we acquired 40% of Circle in 2019 and 2020 with the intention to subsequently acquire the remaining portion.Circle is a very well-positioned and leading ambulatory surgery center business in the U.K. and comes with a strong management team. We expect Circle to be above our Company-targeted adjusted net income margin by 2023.Debt at quarter-end was $16.8 billion. Our debt-to-cap ratio was 38.9%, excluding our non-recourse debt. Our medical claims liability totaled $12.8 billion at quarter end and represents 48 days in claims payable compared to 49 in Q1. DCP was mechanically impacted by the timing of state-directed payments.We updated a few of the 2021 guidance elements based upon what we've seen through the second quarter and for the items we just discussed. While we are maintaining the same wide adjusted EPS range of $5.05 to $5.35, you will notice some changes in the underlying metrics, including higher revenue from continued growth in Medicare and Marketplace, delayed state pharmacy carve outs, higher state pass-throughs of approximately $1 billion and a continued suspension of redeterminations; a higher HBR range, as we just discussed, solely due to our marketplace business; a lower SG&A range due to the potential reduction of the short-term incentive plan depending on how marketplace pent-up demand plays out, but in addition, we are also getting some leverage on the higher revenue base.Overall, this continues to be a relatively wide range as we referenced at Investor Day given the choppiness in our marketplace product. We still have six months of the year to play out, especially with varying scenarios around the subsidence of pent-up demand and the unknowns with COVID. The guidance continues to exclude Magellan. It excludes our recent Magellan financing and Circle Health.We are determined to execute on our multi-year value creation plan laid out at the recent Investor Day and achieve our long-term adjusted net income margin target of at least 3.3%. We have launched a formal program internally, encompassing all aspects of the organization marching in unison toward pulling the necessary levers to achieve the value creation plan. We have developed some of these muscles over the past couple of years, such as the Centene Forward Program for discrete initiatives, our HBR office for clinical quality and cost initiatives, and the integration skills from past large acquisitions.As I said at Investor Day, this journey won't be a straight line and the fruits of our labor are expected to show up more so in 2023 and 2024 than in 2022, but we know how to do this and we are committed on taking the actions to deliver value creation to shareholders. What matters most is pulling the levers in the next 12 months to 18 months to bear fruit in 2023 and 2024. Our balance sheet remains strong and we expect it to strengthen even further as we improve margins and generate cash flow.Thank you for your interest. Operator, you may now open the line for questions.