  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Edwards Lifesciences first quarter 2022 results conference call. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to our host, Mark Wilterding, vice president of investor relations and treasurer. Thank you. You may begin.Mark Wilterding -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer Thanks, Diego, and thank you all for joining us this afternoon. With me on today's call are Mike Mussallem, chairman and chief executive officer; and Scott Ullem, chief financial officer. Just after the close of regular trading, Edwards Lifesciences released first quarter 2022 financial results. During today's call, management will discuss the results included in the press release and accompanying financial statements and then use the remaining time for Q&A. Please note that management will be making forward-looking statements that are based on estimates, assumptions and projections. These statements include, but aren't limited to, financial guidance and expectations for longer-term growth opportunities, regulatory approvals, clinical trials, litigation, reimbursement, competitive matters and foreign currency fluctuations. These statements speak only as of the date on which they were made, and Edwards does not undertake any obligation to update them after today. Additionally, the statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.Information concerning factors that could cause these differences and important safety information may be found in the press release, our 2021 annual report on Form 10-K and Edwards' other SEC filings, all of which are available on the company's website at edwards.com. Finally, a quick reminder that when using the terms underlying and adjusted, management is referring to non-GAAP financial measures. Otherwise, they are referring to GAAP results. Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP numbers mentioned during the call are included in today's press release. And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mike for his comments. Mike? Mike Mussallem -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mark. Let me begin by saying I remain very proud of our team's steadfast dedication to our patient-focused strategy. Throughout the first quarter, our supply chain delivered and our field team continued to support the skilled clinicians and patients who count on Edwards. We continue to believe that 2022 will be an important year for Edwards Lifesciences as we expect low double-digit sales growth and meaningful progress on our pursuit of significant opportunities to improve patient care. Looking beyond 2022, we remain confident in our long-term strategy and our pipeline of innovative therapies. Our patient-focused culture drives us and motivates our employees around the world and our R&D targets breakthrough therapies that can create significant value for patients and health systems, enabling strong organic sales growth. As we are hopeful the worst of the pandemic is behind us, we're constantly reminded of the importance of our work as we pursue solutions for cardiovascular disease, which continues to be the number one killer in the U.S. and the world, well ahead of cancer and other deadly conditions. Turning now to our first quarter financial results. Sales of $1.3 billion increased 13% on a constant currency basis versus the year-ago period. Despite the impact that Omicron had on hospital capacity, resources and procedure volumes in January, especially in the U.S., Q1 global sales were moderately better than our expectations. Sales were lifted by performance outside the U.S., where we experienced a less pronounced impact from the pandemic. Underlying sales growth was double digit across all regions and benefited from improving trends as we progressed through the first quarter. In TAVR, first quarter global sales were $881 million, an increase of 14% on an underlying basis, with continued strong growth outside the U.S. We estimate the global TAVR procedure growth was comparable with our own growth and average selling prices were stable globally. In the U.S., our first quarter TAVR sales grew approximately 10% versus the prior year and we estimate total procedure growth was comparable. TAVR adoption was broad-based across hospitals and our SAPIEN valves continue to demonstrate distinguished clinical performance. Outside the U.S., in the first quarter, our underlying TAVR sales grew approximately 20% on a year-over-year basis, and we estimate total procedure growth was comparable. We continue to see excellent opportunities for OUS growth as international adoption of TAVR therapy remains low. In Europe, Edwards sales growth was driven by the continued strong adoption of our SAPIEN platform and was broad-based across all countries. Our treatment rates recovered nicely throughout the quarter although they differed by country, reflecting variable COVID impacts. We estimate that our competitive position was stable. In Japan, we also experienced strong TAVR adoption and the number of TAVR procedures performed exceeded surgical aortic valve replacement. Following reimbursement approval last year for the treatment of patients at low surgical risk, we remain focused on expanding the availability of TAVR therapy throughout the country. And broadly across the globe, we continue to see encouraging TAVR adoption in many underpenetrated countries. In addition to geographic expansion, we remain focused on helping more patients gain access to TAVR therapy. In Q1, we continued to advance two pivotal trials aimed at expanding indication. First, our early TAVR trial for the large group of patients with severe AS and no diagnosed symptoms. And second, our PROGRESS trial that is evaluating patients with moderate AS which represents a group that is much larger than those with severe AS. We also remain on track to begin treating patients this quarter in our ALLIANCE pivotal trial for our next-generation TAVR technology, SAPIEN X4. In summary, assuming no new COVID headwinds and a gradual improvement in U.S. hospital staffing shortages throughout the year, we continue to plan for underlying TAVR sales growth to be in the range of 12% to 15%. We remain confident that this large global opportunity will double to $10 billion by 2028, which implies a compounded annual growth rate in the low double-digit range. Now turning to TMTT. To transform patient care and unlock the significant long-term growth opportunity, we continue to make steady progress on three key value drivers: a portfolio of differentiated therapies, positive pivotal trial results to support approvals and adoption, and favorable real-world clinical outcomes. We're pleased with our high procedural success rates and we continued our strong momentum with more patients than ever treated with our TM technologies this quarter. In mitral repair, we continue to achieve excellent clinical outcomes with PASCAL as we expand commercially and treat more patients in Europe. We remain on track for U.S. approval of PASCAL PRECISION for patients with degenerative mitral regurgitation late this year, supported by our Class IID pivotal trial. We continue to advance the enrollment of Class IIF pivotal study for patients with functional mitral regurgitation. And later this year, we expect European approval of our new PASCAL PRECISION system, which is engineered for enhanced navigation and an intuitive user experience, extending our differentiated platform. In mitral replacement, we continue to broaden our experience with both of our transcatheter mitral replacement technologies through the ENCIRCLE pivotal trial for SAPIEN M3 and the MISCEND study for EVOQUE Eos. This early experience with the sub 30-French transfemoral therapies gives us confidence that these platforms have the potential to transform treatment for the many patients in need. Turning to transcatheter tricuspid therapies. As we continue to build a body of clinical evidence for PASCAL in the tricuspid position, we are pleased with the recently presented late-breaking data at the ACC meeting last month. We are encouraged by the sustained significant in tricuspid regurgitation and improvements in quality of life measures experienced by patients and look forward to bringing additional clinical evidence through our Class II TR pivotal trial, which is currently enrolling. In addition, we continue to make progress in enrolling our TRISCEND two pivotal trial of the EVOQUE system. We expect a late 2022 approval for EVOQUE tricuspid replacement in Europe and remain committed to providing solutions for these patients who have a very poor prognosis and few treatment options today. Turning to our results. First quarter global TMTT sales were $27 million, driven by the continued adoption of the PASCAL platform in Europe. Although there was an impact from COVID early in the quarter, we exited March with positive momentum. As we expand in Europe, physicians continue to achieve high procedural success rates and excellent clinical outcomes. Assuming a diminishing COVID-related impact, we are planning a gradual ramp in Q2 and a significant acceleration in the second half of the year to reach our 2022 sales guidance of $140 million to $170 million. We look forward to continuing our progress toward advancing our vision to transform the lives of patients with mitral and tricuspid valve disease. In Surgical Structural Heart, first quarter 2022 global sales of $221 million increased 6% on an underlying basis over the prior year. Despite a soft start to the year associated with COVID, we are encouraged by the steady improvement across most regions over the course of the quarter, driven by increased penetration of premium technologies and procedure growth. Although hospital staffing shortages remain a concern, we believe that life-saving surgical therapies continue to be prioritized. At the end of March, we announced the U.S. FDA approval and commercial launch of our MITRIS RESILIA valve, which adds to the portfolio of durable RESILIA tissue products with a valve designed for the heart's mitral position. Built upon previous generations of proven mitral valve technology, MITRIS offers greater ease of use and is designed to facilitate potential future transcatheter interventions. Today, nearly 60% of the world's surgical mitral valves are mechanical. RESILIA tissue should allow patients to thrive without the quality of life compromises that may come from having a mechanical valve. Initial feedback from U.S. surgeons has been very positive. In summary, we remain confident that our full year 2022 underlying sales growth will be in the mid-single-digit range for a Surgical Structural Heart driven by market adoption of our newest premium technologies. In Critical Care, first quarter sales of $212 million increased 11% on an underlying basis driven by balanced contributions from all product lines. Demand for our state-of-the-art HemoSphere monitoring platform remains strong and lifted our sales. Our broad portfolio of Smart Recovery sensors and our TruWave disposable pressure monitoring devices supported the increased number of patients in the ICU in the first quarter. Additionally, we continued enrollment in the HPI Smart BP trial, focused on generating additional clinical evidence to support the adoption of our hypotension predictive index software. In summary, we continue to expect mid-single-digit underlying sales growth for 2022, which are moderated by the strong prior year comparisons over the remainder of the year. We remain excited about our pipeline of critical care innovations as we continue to shift our focus to Smart Recovery technologies designed to help clinicians make better decisions for their patients. And now I'll turn the call over to Scott.Scott Ullem -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Mike. We are encouraged by our start to the year, despite the impact from Omicron early in the quarter, all product groups performed well, and sales were balanced across all regions. We achieved total sales in the quarter of $1.341 billion, which represents 12.7% year over year underlying growth. This strong sales performance fell through to our operating income, and we achieved adjusted earnings per share of $0.60. Assuming no new COVID headwinds and a gradual improvement in U.S. hospital staffing shortages, we are projecting second quarter sales to be between $1.36 billion and $1.44 billion, which represents sequential organic growth from the first quarter, partially offset by foreign exchange headwinds. We expect our year-over-year sales growth in the second quarter to be our lowest of the year given our strong prior year sales performance. We are also projecting second quarter adjusted earnings per share of $0.61 to $0.69. Although we haven't fully overcome the January Omicron impact, we are maintaining all of our previous full year guidance ranges for 2022 despite more pronounced foreign exchange headwinds and COVID-related hospital staffing challenges in the U.S. As a reminder, for total Edwards, we expect sales of $5.5 billion to $6 billion; for TAVR, $3.7 billion to $4.0 billion; for TMTT, $140 million to $170 million; for Surgical Structural Heart, $870 million to $950 million; and for Critical Care, $820 million to $900 million. We are also maintaining our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance of $2.50 to $2.65, representing mid-teens growth over 2021. And now I'll cover additional details of our results. For the first quarter, our adjusted gross profit margin was 77.8% compared to 76% in the same period last year. As we expected, this improvement was driven by the positive impact of foreign exchange, primarily the strengthening of the dollar against the euro and the yen. We continue to expect our full year 2022 adjusted gross profit margin to be between 78% and 79%. This guidance range reflects our assumptions of a favorable impact from foreign exchange hedge gains and improved product mix and partially offset by supply chain inflationary pressures. Selling, general and administrative expenses in the first quarter were $370 million or 27.6% of sales, reflecting field-based personnel related costs and commercial activities in support of our growth. We continue to expect full year 2022 SG&A as a percent of sales to be between 28% and 30% as we continue to invest in our high-touch model for TAVR and ongoing build-out of the TMTT commercial team. Research and development expenses in the quarter grew 10% to $229 million or 17% of sales. This increase was primarily the result of continued investments in our transcatheter innovations, including increased clinical trial activity. For the full year 2022, we continue to expect R&D to be 17% to 18% of sales as we invest in developing new technologies and generating evidence to support TAVR and TMTT. Turning to taxes. Our reported tax rate this quarter was 14.3% or 14.4%, excluding the impact of special items. This is slightly higher than the midpoint of our full year guidance range because it included the unplanned impact of U.S. tax regulations published in Q1. These regulations potentially limit the amount of foreign taxes that are against U.S. income taxes. We continue to expect our full year tax rate, excluding special items, to be 11% to 15%, including an estimated benefit of 3 percentage points from stock-based compensation accounting. Foreign exchange rates decreased our first quarter reported sales growth by 2.5 percentage points or $27 million compared to the prior year. At current rates, we now expect an approximate $170 million negative impact or about 3% to full year 2022 sales compared to 2021 versus our previous expectation of a $100 million negative impact. We forecast this additional $70 million negative impact to sales will occur over the remainder of the year. FX rates positively impacted our first quarter gross profit margin by 240 basis points compared to the prior year. Although this benefits our operating margin rate relative to our January guidance, FX rates had a minimal impact on first quarter earnings per share. As we mentioned at the investor conference, in periods of a strengthening dollar like this, sales are negatively impacted. But as a result of financial and natural hedges, margin rates benefit, resulting in little impact to the bottom line. At current rates, our operating margin in 2022 is benefiting by approximately 200 basis points from foreign exchange. Free cash flow for the first quarter was $221 million, defined as cash flow from operating activities of $294 million, less capital spending of $73 million. We continue to expect full year 2022 free cash flow will be between $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion. This includes approximately $200 million of accelerated tax payments due to a change in the tax treatment of research and development expenses. Before turning the call back over to Mike, I'll finish with an update on our balance sheet and share repurchase activities. We continue to maintain a strong and flexible balance sheet with approximately $1.5 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of March 31, 2022. In the first quarter, we repurchased approximately $400 million in stock through an accelerated share repurchase agreement and pre-established 10b5-1 programs. As a result, average diluted shares outstanding during the quarter declined by approximately $3 million to $629 million. We continue to expect average diluted shares outstanding for 2022 to be between $630 million to $635 million. And with that, I'll pass it back over to Mike.Mike Mussallem -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Scott. So we're confident in our long-term outlook for strong sales growth, and our teams remain passionate about helping more patients around the world. We continue to focus on driving organic growth with leading innovative technologies, while aggressively investing in our future. Our foundation of leadership, coupled with a robust product pipeline, positions us well for continued long-term success and greater shareholder value as we pursue significant opportunities to improve patient's lives. And with that, I'll turn it over to Mark.Mark Wilterding -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer Thanks a lot, Mike. With that, we're ready to take questions. [Operator instructions] Diego? 