
OperatorHello, and thank you for standing by for Baidu's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]Now I'd like to turn the meeting over to your host for today's conference, Juan Lin, Baidu's Director of Investor Relations.Juan Lin -- Head of Investor Relations

 



Hello, everyone and welcome to Baidu's third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Baidu's earning release was distributed earlier today and you can find a copy on our website as well as on newswire services.On the call today, we have Robin Li, our Co-Founder and CEO; Rong Luo, our CFO; Dou Shen, our EVP in charge of Baidu Mobile Ecosystem; and Herman Yu, our CSO. After our prepared remarks, we will hold a Q&A session.Please note that the discussion today will contain forward-looking statements made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. For detailed discussions of these risks and uncertainties, please refer to our latest Annual Report and other documents filed with the SEC and Hong Kong Exchange. Baidu does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as required under applicable law.Our earnings press release and this call includes discussions of certain unaudited non-GAAP financial measures. Our press release contains a reconciliation of the unaudited non-GAAP measures to the unaudited most directly comparable GAAP [Technical Issues] and is available on our IR website at ir.baidu.com. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. In addition, a webcast of this conference call will also be available on Baidu's IR website.

 



I will now turn the call over to our CEO, Robin.Robin Li -- Co-Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerHello, everyone. We delivered another solid quarter in Q3 with Baidu core revenue growing 15% year-over-year, driven by AI cloud, growing 73% year-over-year. Many years ago, we doubled down on AI, believing that it would expand our market opportunity and accelerate Baidu's long-term growth. Non-ad revenue accounted for 21% of Baidu core revenue in Q3 and remains a strong growth engine for us. Through AI, we are bringing innovation across the consumer price and the public sector on the backdrop of positive tailwinds and the rising tide of tech innovation in digital transformation in the strong Internet, IoT, and intelligent mobility.Baidu AI Cloud is empowering enterprises from traditional industries and the public sector to better serve customers and move faster with greater efficiency. At Baidu World in August which was broadcasted on CCTV we showcased Baidu AI solutions, including smart quality assurance to automate the screening of electronic components of manufacturing assembly line, smart logistics to optimize fleet management, and smart monitoring to ensure a steady energy supply from the utility sector.

 



We are excited about Baidu AI Cloud continuing fast growth. Leading companies across industries are adopting Baidu AI Cloud solution to improve their operation and we are working hard to standardize such solutions for industry adoption. An example is our end-to-end AI solution composed of SaaS, PaaS, and FaaS for financial services sector. Our AI Cloud customers are recognizing Baidu's value proposition, the strong consumer demand reach. For example, we are winning smart public parking projects with our solution offering the convenience of collect public parking fees via Baidu Maps without the need for meta [Phonetic].Hospitals are choosing Baidu for cloud solutions that save patients trips to the hospital with continued patient care for chronic diseases at home through DuerOS Smart Display. According to the World Health organization, there are 1.35 million road traffic deaths every year. Apollo autonomous driving aims to reduce traffic accidents, accelerate mobility to EV, and provide greater passenger safety, especially after dark. Apollo Go has become the largest robotaxi service provider in the world based on our estimate. Our leadership position in autonomous driving will lend strength ASD and Jidu Auto.DeepWay, a gateway between Baidu and Lionbridge, a leading trucking company in China recently unveiled its first generation EV truck powered by Apollo to automate road freight, marking Apollo's entry into the multi-trillion dollar truck market. DeepWay leverages Apollo's leading autonomous driving capabilities and Lionbridges market base. Jidu is making great progress as it plans to release the first concept production car at the Beijing Auto Show early next year. Jidu will showcase Apollo's intelligent self-driving and incoming features with the aim to deliver mass production in 2023.For the third quarter, China's GDP growth 4.9%, much lower than the 18.3% and 7.9% growth rate in the first two quarters. Our app has been impacted by sectors like education, real estate and home furnishing, travel and franchising as we expect this headwind to continue in the near term. As we look forward, there are also positives coming into play. For example, Baidu App is reaching over 600 million users each month. Our hosted marketing solution is becoming ever more popular, despite owners and the trend is for the Internet to become more open. Non-app makes up over one-fifth of Baidu's core business and grow over 70% year-over-year. We stand to benefit from China's plans to leverage technology to grow the enterprise and public sector part of the economy.ESG is at the heart of Baidu as we leverage our strong Internet foundation to grow our AI business at scale. Apollo's mission is aligned with lowering carbon emission from making traffic in large cities smoother to accelerating the adoption of EVs through Jidu software for EVs and EV powered ride-hailing. In June, we announced our goal to become carbon-neutral by year 2030. Our Yangquan datacenter was awarded the carbon-neutral data center leader certification and MSCI named Baidu as one of the two companies in China with transparent reporting on greenhouse gas emission in its net-zero tracker.Turning to Q3 operational highlights, Baidu's AI Cloud continues to see strong growth, leveraging our world-class AI technologies and our capabilities to provide one-stop shop solutions to our customers. Our AI solutions are being increasingly adopted across different industries and for different scenarios. We enriched our cloud offering with the release of an end-to-end AI cloud solution powered by Kunlun AI chip and PaddlePaddle deep learning framework to help financial services firms digitize and automate their operational processes, enlisting leading customers like China Life and Bank of Jiangsu.Baidu AI Cloud is expanding into industrial Internet by partnering with industrial parks and municipalities. Our deployment to serve large pool of enterprises is hardening. Last year, we spent seven months implementing our AI PaaS in Guiyang Economic and Technology Development Zone, serving approximately 100 enterprises. Our deployment of AI PaaS to enterprises in Tongxiang, including those in their economic development zone took only three months. Tongxiang hosts 40,000 enterprises, mostly manufacturing-based and we believe our AI solution can help these companies improve their operational capabilities. Baidu AI Cloud is moving into smart city. Lijiang, a UNESCO Heritage Site with 800-year old bridges and waterways in Southwest China is using Baidu AI solution to keep the city safe and clean for visitors. Leveraging the digitization of tourist areas, Baidu AI Cloud helps local authorities timely detect and address infractions such as illegal parking and public littering. Our success in Lijiang is leading to projects with Chengdu, Suzhou and other cities.Moving to ACE smart transportation, Baidu ACE has been adopted in 24 cities, up threefold from last year, based on contract size over RMB10 million. About half of ACE projects signed in Q3 came from repeat customers. In addition to supporting policy tailwind, ACE is benefiting from the value we deliver to the public sector. For example, the ACE smart transportation solution that was deployed in Guangzhou earlier this year helped improve congestive traffic by over 30%. Smart parking has made it easier for local residents to find available parking spaces shortening travel time.Turning to autonomous driving, Apollo Level 4 testing has accumulated over 10 million miles or 16 million kilometers, setting a new milestone. We continue to receive green light in our application for autonomous driving testing as we demonstrate to local authorities Apollo's progress in technology and operation. Apollo has received 411 autonomous driving permits, an increase of 237 permits from a year ago. Our progress in autonomous driving technology, operation and continuous cost reduction positions us for ridesharing monetization in a few years as paid rides scale.In July, Baidu opened its third Apollo Park in Shanghai, a 10,000 square meter facility housing Apollo Cloud and data operation. Shanghai marks Apollo Go's fifth ride-hailing service open to the public following the cities of Beijing, Guangzhou, Changsha and Cangzhou. In August, we introduced the Chinese brand for Apollo Go, [Foreign Speech], a phonetic interpretation of robotaxi in Chinese. Apollo Go is resonating with ride-hailing passengers with total rides doubling quarter-on-quarter to reach 115,000 in the third quarter. Apollo Go is off to a good start as we set an ambitious goal to expand operations into 65 cities by the year 2025 and 100 cities by year 2030.Turning to ASD and DuerOS in vehicle infotainment software, WM Motor, a Chinese EV OEM signed with Baidu to install Apollo navigation pilot in its new W6 SUV taking Apollo partner network to 31 mix, including those from automakers like GM, Ford, Toyota, Honda, and [Indecipherable].Turning to Jidu Auto, Jidu has completed its first vehicle wind tunnel testing with the full sized oil and clay model. We have identified the model design schemes and engineering development and design optimization are underway. Jidu will showcase the latest ASD, demonstrating the appeal of smart EVs with advanced autonomous driving and smart in-cabin features. We hope the success of Jidu will increase the appeal of Apollo solutions to other automakers.On DuerOS, Xiaodu again was ranked the number 1 in smart display globally and number 1 in smart speaker in China based on second quarter shipment according to Strategy Analytics, Canalys and IDC. A key growth driver for Xiaodu smart display is the shift of user time spent at home to large screen for services like karaoke, short and long videos, online games, education services, video conferencing, and other visually oriented activities. Popular mobile apps are appearing on DuerOS scales like Kuaishou, 58.com, right, BNP and Kentucky Fried Chicken to name a few.In addition, Xiaodu completed its Series B financing at a market valuation of RMB5.1 billion in August, nine months after its Series A financing at RMB2.9 billion. Baidu remains a super majority shareholder after the Series B round. The continued strong performance of our new AI bills would not have occurred without our relentless investment in technology and our pursuit of better product and more customer adoption from our technology leadership. Baidu released PLATO-XL, the world's first 11 billion parameter pre-trained dialog generation model, achieving breakthroughs in Chinese and English conversation. PLATO allows for different kinds of conversation with users including chit-chat, knowledge-based dialogs, and conversational Q&A which will be incorporated into Xiaodu in the future.Turning to Mobile Ecosystem, daily logged in users in Baidu App reached another all-time high at 79% and in-app search queries was up 11% year-over-year, reflecting a better search experience from Baidu App. We continue to focus on deepening the service offering of our key verticals. For example, Baidu Health has built a strong community of medical experts that allow users to frictionlessly move from search to telehealth consultation. We recently enabled doctors in our network to write prescription for online consultation and home delivery. Baidu App now offers instant replies to search queries from over 30,000 industry participants, spanning 19 industry verticals. Instant replies were up five-folds from a year ago and 40% are paid services. For example, users who search for tips on job interviews can readily connect to career advisors to get help on reviewing their resumes and selecting career training programs. Instant replies have enriched Baidu's search experience further driving the vibrancy of our in-app search.Revenues from Managed Page reached 43% of Baidu core advertising as we make doing business online for merchants simpler through Baidu's hosted marketing cloud. For example, [Indecipherable], a physical checkup clinic chain in Shanghai opened a Managed Page store front allowing users to browse its services, chat with customer service, make payments, leave comments, and share reviews. Monthly orders increased four-fold three months after using Managed Page promotion.Search by nature is open and we are benefiting from the trend to make Internet more open in China. Our e-commerce feature is seeing good progress. In September, the number of third-party SKUs from China's top e-commerce sites searchable on Baidu reached almost 1 billion and e-commerce GMV on Baidu, though small, grew 90% sequentially. The open nature of our mobile ecosystem is leading smartphone makers to select Baidu's smart mini program as the landing page for their browser search. MAU from such collaboration has reached 24 million and we believe such trend enhance user experience and monetization of Union search.Last but not least, I want to welcome Rong Luo who has joined us recently as our new CFO. Rong brings a wealth of financial management and capital market experience. I also want to thank Herman for his four years of service as Baidu CFO and we expect more great things from him as CSO.With that, let me turn the call over to Rong to go through the financial highlights.Rong Luo -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Robin. Hello, everyone. I'm very excited to have joined Baidu recently and participating on my first earning call at Baidu. I look forward to meeting with everyone in the coming months. Now, let me walk you through the details of our third quarter 2021 financial results. All monetary amounts used in my discussion are in RMB unless stated otherwise. Baidu's Q3 revenue was RMB31.9 billion or $5 billion, up 13% year over year. Baidu core Q3 revenue reached RMB24.7 billion or $3.8 billion, up 15% year-over-year. Non-advertising for Baidu core reached RMB5.2 billion, up 21% of Baidu core's revenue. AI Cloud revenue was RMB3.8 billion, up 73% year-over-year. Our AI Cloud growth is benefiting from the demand for cloud services by customers from the Internet media, financial services, energy, manufacturing, and the public sectors. ACE smart transportation is another growth driver for AI cloud revenue.We are finding that automakers who subscribe to our infotainment solutions are also interested in Apollo ASD, plus we are reclassifying ASD revenue into AI Cloud. ASD revenue is quite small now and added approximately 1% growth year-over-year to AI Cloud as a result of the retroactive adjustment. On iQIYI and OGI, Xiaodu continues to make great progress. Demand for higher ASP products is growing as customers come to appreciate the value of DuerOS smart assistant and service revenue continues to grow. Baidu core app revenue was RMB19.5 billion, up 6% year-over-year. In-app search advertising was solid, partially offset by the weakness in Union revenue. iQIYI revenue was RMB7.6 billion, up 6% year-over-year. iQIYI subscribers reached 104 million in September and the membership revenue was up 8% year-over-year, mainly due to the refined membership strategy and improved monetization capabilities.Cost of revenues was RMB16.1 billion, up 26% year-over-year, primarily resulting from an increase in tech content costs and the cost of sales associated with new AI business. Operating expenses were RMB13.5 billion, up 46% year-over-year. During the third quarter, we incurred a contingency loss of RMB976 million pertaining to the legal proceeding involving former advertising agency. Excluding such contingent loss, operating expense was up 35%, primarily due to an increase in channel spending, promotional marketing, personnel related expenses.Non-GAAP operating income was RMB4.6 billion or $731 million and non-GAAP operating margin was 15%. Non-GAAP operating income for Baidu core was RMB5.8 billion or $904 million and non-GAAP operating margin for Baidu core was 24%. Adjusted EBITDA was RMB6 billion or $925 million and adjusted EBITDA margin was 19%. Adjusted EBITDA for Baidu core was RMB7 billion or $1.1 billion and adjusted EBITDA margin for Baidu core was 28%.Cash and short-term investments for Baidu core as of September 30, 2021 was RMB183.6 billion or $28.5 billion. Free cash flow for Baidu excluding iQIYI was RMB2.9 billion or $449 million. Baidu core has approximately 39,000 employees as of September 30, 2021. As Robin mentioned, China's GDP growth has slowed over the last three quarters and sectors in our app businesses such as education, real estate and home furnishing, travel and franchisee have been negatively impacted. With the resurgence of COVID-19 in many cities recently, local governments are putting in place preventive measures, including quarantines, travel suspension and mass testing. Consequently, our own advertising business may remain soft in the coming quarters before normalizing.Turning to Q4 guidance, for the fourth quarter of 2021, Baidu expects revenue to be between RMB31 billion which is $4.81 billion and RMB34 billion which is $5.27 billion, representing a growth rate of 2% to 12% year-over-year, which assumes that Baidu Core revenue will grow between 5% and 16% year-over-year. The above forecast takes into consideration that the current COVID-19 situation in China, which is still evolving and business visibility is limited. The above forecast reflects our current and preliminary view, which is subject substantial uncertainty.Before I turn the call to operator, let me recap this quarter. China is adjusting its economic growth drivers with the introduction of a new five-year plan in March this year. Historically, the Chinese economy has been worry-resistant to such adjustments and new drivers allowed the GDP growth to come back. We are optimistic about China's future especially when the current COVID-19 situation comes under control.It's quite clear that China will leverage technology to grow the enterprise and public sector portion of the economy. Leveraging AI, our cloud services, our cloud business continued to outperform the market, growing 73% year-over-year in the third quarter. Apollo is making great progress from L4 autonomous driving testing surpassing 10 million test miles to robotaxi ride-sharing doubling rides. Sequentially through ASD signing our new partners to Jidu finished the wind tunnel testing of its first cut model eight months after its CEO joins to build the team. We are moving at China speed.China is building out new policies to support grid energy. We hope for that Baidu will benefit from the promotion of decarbon migration as we leverage AI to minimize traffic congestions in thousands of cities across China and help accelerate the switch to EV with Jidu, ASD, and Apollo Go robotaxi. On Mobile Ecosystem, Baidu App MAU reached 607 million, up 12% and daily logging reached 79%. Our app business is susceptible to macroenvironment and we expect our app growth rate to pick up when GDP growth reaccelerates.Operator, with that, let's now open the call to questions.