  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, please stand by. Good day, and welcome to the Honeywell's first-quarter earnings release. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mark Bendza, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Mark Bendza -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Jake. Good morning, and welcome to Honeywell's first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. On the call with me today are chairman and CEO, Darius Adamczyk; and senior vice president and chief financial officer, Greg Lewis. This call and webcast, including any non-GAAP reconciliations, are available on our website at www.honeywell.com/investor. Note that elements of this presentation contain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and of our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change based on many factors, including changing economic and business conditions, and we ask that you interpret them in that light. We identify the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect our performance in our annual report on Form 10-K and other SEC filings. This morning, we will review our financial results for the first quarter of 2021, share our guidance for the second quarter, and provide an update to our full-year 2021 outlook.As always, we'll leave time for your questions at the end. With that, I'll turn the call over to chairman and CEO, Darius Adamczyk. Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Mark, and good morning, everyone. Let's begin on Slide 2. We delivered a very strong start to 2021, exceeding the high end of our first-quarter organic sales growth, segment margin, and adjusted earnings per share guidance range. In the first quarter, we delivered adjusted earnings per share of $1.92, down 13% year over year and $0.09 above the high end of our guidance range. Organic sales were down 2% year over year, a 5-percentage-point sequential improvement from the 7% organic sales decline in the fourth quarter of 2020. We drove year-over-year organic sales growth in two out of our four segments, HBT and SPS, despite facing difficult comps since the first quarter of 2020 wasn't fully impacted by the pandemic. Honeywell Building Technologies returned to growth, and safety and productivity solutions achieved an outstanding 47% organic growth in the quarter. We also drove double-digit year-over-year organic growth in connected software sales, driven by strong demand for our connected buildings and cyber solutions. We delivered segment margin of 21%, 10 basis points above our guidance, with margin expansion in aerospace, HBT, and SPS. We generated $757 million of free cash flow in the quarter, a strong performance despite increased investments in high-return capital expenditures, which were up approximately $80 million year over year as we position ourselves for the recovery. Adjusted free cash flow conversion was 56%, up 500 basis points year over year on the strength of working capital improvements. In terms of capital, we deployed $3 billion to dividends, growth capex, share repurchases, and M&A during the quarter. We opportunistically repurchased 4 million shares throughout the quarter, reducing our share count to 705 million. We're off to a strong start in 2021. And I'm very confident the continued improvement in our end markets, coupled with accelerated innovation and strong execution, will provide a long runway for continued business improvement and top-tier value creation for our shareholders. Next, let's turn to Slide 3 to discuss a few of our recent business highlights.

 



 I'm excited to share a few recent recognitions and partnerships that highlight our commitment to upholding the highest ethical standards and our focus on creating breakthrough innovations. First, Honeywell is one of only eight companies in the industrial manufacturing category to be named one of the World's Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere. Ethisphere is an organization that evaluates and honors businesses around the globe and across industries for their strong cultural, environmental, social, governance, and diversity practices. We are proud to have earned this prestigious ranking. Second, Honeywell was named to Fast Company's annual list of the World's Most Innovative Companies for '21. In addition to being recognized for a 100-year heritage of creating groundbreaking technologies like quantum computing that transform the way the world works, Honeywell was also recognized for mobilizing quickly to help people and businesses cope with the pandemic, including our launch of new N95 mask manufacturing and our introduction of UV treatment systems for airplanes, healthy building solutions, and innovative Aclar Edge bottles and vials. We also recently announced our partnership with musician and entrepreneur, will.i.am, to launch the XuperMask, a one-of-a-kind, innovative, smart face mask for the mid- and post-pandemic world. The XuperMask is easily adjustable to fit a variety of face shapes and is enhanced with multiple functions for the modern lifestyle, including dual three-speed fans and HEPA filters for enhanced breathability, active noise-cancelling audio and microphone capabilities, and Bluetooth connectivity. Finally, we're continuously evaluating our portfolio for M&A opportunities that can enhance our existing offerings. During the first quarter, we signed an agreement to acquire a majority stake in Fiplex Communications, a company that develops in-building communication systems, including bidirectional amplifiers that provide continuous and critical in-building radio coverage in challenging environments to improve the safety of first responders and building occupants. The addition of Fiplex products and software enhance our offering in the fast-growing in-building communication market and complement our innovative, industry-leading portfolio, enabling us toward creating the next generation of fire and life-safety solutions. Now, let me turn it over to Greg on Slide 4 to discuss our first-quarter results in more detail and to provide an update on our 2021 outlook.Greg Lewis -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, and good morning, everyone. As Darius highlighted, we're very pleased with our start to 2021. While the COVID pandemic continues to impact some of our end markets, our laser focus on demand generation, operational execution, and cost management enabled us to over-deliver on our commitments. First-quarter sales declined by 2% organically due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which represents a 5-percentage-point sequential improvement from the fourth quarter. As Darius mentioned, that was driven by robust double-digit growth in our warehouse automation solutions and personal protective equipment businesses, as well as continued demand for our building products and services, advanced material strength, and strength in our connected software. We expanded margins year over year in three out of four segments, aerospace, HBT, and SPS, for the second consecutive quarter, limiting Honeywell's overall segment margin contraction to 80 basis points and ending the quarter with a segment margin of 21%. Our commercial excellence and strong cost management, as well as an approximately $30 million one-time benefit in aerospace, drove 10 basis points of outperformance in segment margin compared to the high end of our guidance range despite the mix headwind from much stronger sales in our lowest-margin segment, SPS. We delivered adjusted earnings per share of $1.92, down 13% year over year. This was $0.09 above the high end of our guidance, driven by segment profit improvement from higher sales volumes and by a lower-than-expected effective tax rate. From a year-over-year perspective, below-the-line items were an $0.11 headwind, driven by lower interest income and FX and higher repositioning and interest expense, partially offset by higher pension income. Our effective tax rate was higher than the first quarter of 2020 primarily due to benefits realized in the prior-year period from tax law changes in India and the resolution of certain U.S. tax matters, driving a $0.13 headwind. This was partially offset by a $0.03 EPS benefit from lower share count. A bridge of all this from 1Q '20 to 1Q '21 adjusted EPS can be found in the appendix of this presentation. We generated $978 million of cash from operations, up 4% year over year despite lower net income. Free cash flow for the quarter was $757 million, down 5% year over year due to higher capital expenditures, particularly in SPS, as we continue to expand PPE capacity. Working capital improvements, including strong collections, offset these headwinds during the quarter, driving adjusted free cash flow conversion of 56%, up 500 basis points from the prior year. As you know, the first quarter is historically our lowest from a cash perspective, and we remain on track to our full-year cash guidance. I'll talk more about our full-year outlook in a few minutes. We strategically deployed $3 billion to M&A, share repurchases, dividends, and capex in the first quarter, which significantly exceeded our operating cash flow. We paid $640 million in dividends; deployed approximately $220 million in capex, up 60%; repurchased over $820 million of Honeywell shares, reducing our share count to 705 million; and also, we completed the purchase of Sparta Systems, deploying a total of $1.3 billion to further bolster our software, controls, and analytics capabilities in the attractive life sciences space. The integration of Sparta is progressing well. And in fact, we exceeded our first-quarter financial expectations, with sales of Sparta up 25% year over year and bookings up approximately 75% year over year. In March, we also repaid $800 million in maturing senior notes as we began the process to repay debt taken on to provide incremental liquidity during the COVID-19 pandemic. We maintained a strong balance of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at the end of the first quarter of $12.7 billion. So all in all, we had a very strong start to 2021. We are investing for the future, continuing to execute commercially and operationally with the discipline and rigor you have come to expect from Honeywell, positioning ourselves well for the recovery ahead. Now, let's turn to Slide 5 and talk about the individual segment results. Starting with aerospace, first-quarter sales were down 22% organically, driven by lower commercial aerospace demand due to the ongoing impact of reduced flight hours and lower original equipment volumes. Our air transport aftermarket sales were down 48% organically year over year and down 7% sequentially from 4Q '20 as rising infection rates, the pace of vaccinations early in the quarter, and the lack of the peak holiday travel contributed to flight hour declines as we messaged was possible in 4Q. Our business aviation aftermarket sales were down only 6% organically year over year as we see a faster recovery in this space. In original equipment, while still down year over year, our business aviation OE grew double digits sequentially from 4Q '20, driving a 6% sequential growth in the total commercial original equipment from 4Q. Defense and space was down 2% organically as demand for U.S. defense and space was offset by lower international defense volumes. Aerospace segment margin expanded 110 basis points to 29%, driven by strong cost management in the face of organic sales declines and an approximate $30 million one-time benefit. Building Technologies returned to growth in 1Q despite facing the most difficult comps we'll see this year since 1Q '20 was only partially impacted by the pandemic. Sales were up 2% organically, driven by demand for building management systems and security and commercial fire products, as well as continued growth in building solutions services. Orders and backlog for building solutions services were both up double digits year over year, positioning the business for continued growth in '21. In addition, our portfolio of healthy building solutions maintained strong customer momentum with exciting wins with the Jacksonville Jaguars, the Pittsburgh Airport, and Syracuse University. HBT segment margins expanded 200 basis points to 22.5%, driven by commercial excellence and productivity, net of inflation. PMT sales were down 47% -- excuse me, were down 6% organically, a six percentage point sequential improvement from the 12% organic sales decline we saw in 4Q. Process solutions sales were down 9% organically driven by continued project delays and lower smart energy demand due to some softness in the end markets, partially offset by demand for field instruments. Orders for services, process measurement, and control products, and thermal solutions grew in the quarter, positioning the HPS service and products businesses for acceleration in the second quarter and beyond. And UOP, sales were down 14% organically, driven by the ongoing weakness in the energy end markets. However, this was a 16-point sequential improvement from the 30% organic decline we saw in 4Q. UOP orders were up double digits driven by gas process and catalyst orders, so we are seeing some signs of growth potential for the future. Finally, advanced materials sales increased 8% year over year organically driven by growth broadly across the portfolio, including strong growth in fluorine products, specialty additives, chemicals, and electronics materials demand. PMT segment margins contracted 290 basis points in the first quarter, driven by the impact of sales mix, partially offset by commercial excellence and cost management. Finally, in safety and productivity solutions, sales were up 47% organically, as Darius mentioned earlier, driven by strength across the portfolio, including double-digit organic growth in warehouse and workflow solutions, personal protective equipment, and productivity solutions and services, who drove market share gains due to strong demand in the U.S. and Europe. SPS orders were up double digits year over year for the sixth straight quarter driven by continued demand for personal protective equipment and productivity solutions and services. SPS backlog was up approximately 70% year over year, remaining above $4 billion for the third consecutive quarter, including $2.1 billion of backlog for warehouse and workflow solutions. SPS segment margins expanded 180 points in the first quarter due to -- to 14.3% driven by the impact of those higher sales volumes. So overall, we finished the first quarter with a return to sales growth in HBT and with continued growth in other areas of the portfolio, as well as backlog strength in HBT, warehouse and workflow solutions, productivity solutions and services, PPE, and UOP. We expanded margins in three of the four segments, while strategically investing in high-return growth capex and R&D, giving us confidence that our businesses are well positioned as demand recovers. With that, let's turn to Slide 6 and discuss our preview for the second quarter. As the timing and speed of the economic recovery continues to unfold, we entered the second quarter well positioned with strong momentum and some key areas of the portfolio continuing to make progress each quarter. For the second quarter, we expect organic growth in the range of 10% to 13% as we lap the first full quarter disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect some of the areas in the portfolio that have been most significantly impacted, particularly the commercial aerospace aftermarket and HPS businesses to return to growth. We also expect ongoing strength in safety and productivity solutions, building products, and advanced materials. We would normally see a seasonal step-up from 1Q to 2Q, which this year will be somewhat dampened by the calendar impact of having more days in the first quarter than we do in 2Q. We will be facing some supply chain constraints as the sourcing environment for direct materials and components such as semiconductors and resins continues to be challenging. We have taken swift actions to partner with our distributors to mitigate those impacts, but our second-quarter sales will be somewhat constrained as these shortages create higher lead times, primarily in SPS and, to a lesser extent, in HBT. As a reminder, during 2020, we responded fast and early to the pandemic by identifying and delivering on a two-phase program that reduced our fixed cost base by $1.5 billion, and approximately 70% of these savings, or about $1 billion, were permanent reductions. As such, we'll see approximately $500 million of headwind in 2021 for the year from the temporary savings measures we implemented and as we resume some areas of spending, including business travel, merit increases, and investments in growth, particularly in R&D. These impacts will begin to accelerate in 2Q, though we are confident our streamlined cost base gives us ample capacity to invest and positions us well to drive margin expansion across all four segments as sales recover. We expect sales -- excuse me, we expect segment margin in the range of 19.8% to 20.3% for the second quarter, which represents 130 to 180 basis points of margin expansion year over year. From a sequential perspective, our second-quarter segment margin expectations do result in contraction from the first quarter due to the mix impact of higher sales from lower-margin businesses, higher research and development expenses as we invest back into the business, particularly aerospace, and the cost impacts that I mentioned earlier, as well as the first-quarter benefit in aerospace, which won't repeat. The net below-the-line impact, which is the difference between segment profit and income before tax, is expected to be flat to a $55 million benefit, with a range of repositioning between $50 million and $100 million for the quarter as we continue to fund ongoing restructuring projects. We expect the effective tax rate to be in the range of 23% to 24% for the quarter, and our average share count should be flat to 1Q at approximately 705 million shares. As a result, we expect second-quarter earnings per share between $1.86 and $1.96, up 48% to 56% year on year. Now let's take a moment just to talk through the segments. In aerospace, we expect flight hours to improve in the second quarter, driving sequential and year-over-year improvement in commercial aftermarket sales as domestic travel improves. That will be tempered by ongoing softness in international travel as flight hours remain far below pre-COVID levels there. We still expect a slow ramp in commercial original equipment build rates. Moderate U.S. defense spending should continue in the second quarter, though this will be pressured by low international defense volumes. In building technologies, as business conditions improve and as the world prepares to safely return to offices, schools, and to travel, we expect continued demand for building products and management systems, as well as sequential and year-over-year building solutions growth as we execute our projects and services backlog. In addition, we expect continued customer demand for our portfolio of healthy building solutions, which we began converting into sales in the first quarter. In PMT, we expect continued recovery in the process solutions products businesses, as well as sequential improvement in automation projects. While UOP orders were up double digits year over year in the first quarter, as I mentioned earlier, we expect customer capex and opex budgets to remain tight in 2Q, limiting the delivery and execution of those opportunities in the near term. We expect continued strength in advanced materials in the second quarter driven by growth across the portfolio, particularly by strong demand for foreign products. Finally, we anticipate continued strength in SPS with another quarter of robust double-digit organic growth in warehouse and workflow solutions, personal protective equipment, and productivity solutions and services. Our warehouse and workflow solutions backlog remains strong, over $2 billion as I mentioned previously, as customers make investments in advance of the busy holiday season, giving us confidence in continued growth. Our PPE and productivity solutions and services backlogs are both up triple digits, which will drive growth in the second quarter though as I mentioned, we will be managing some supply constraints here. Overall, we expect another strong quarter for SPS. So with that foundation for 2Q, let's turn to Slide 7 and talk about the key changes to our 2021 outlook since the guidance we provided in January. Over the past few months, we've seen tremendous progress in the distribution administration of the COVID-19 vaccine, particularly in the U.S., the U.K., and the Middle East, coupled with improvements in infection rates in many of those geographic areas. We're also encouraged by talks of fiscal stimulus that will further support economic growth, including funding for infrastructure, clean energy, and manufacturing investments. While the pace of recovery varies regionally with slower vaccine rollouts in India, Europe, and Latin America, and with the emergence of new COVID-19 variants, we will continue to navigate the recovery with a balanced approach of investment and cost management in order to drive value longer term. So let's take a moment to walk through what's changed since our prior guidance. Starting in aerospace, we continue to expect gradual improvement in our commercial aerospace business as the pandemic subsides. The business aviation aftermarket is on track to recover as expected and perhaps at a somewhat faster pace than we thought. And air transport, the aftermarket business had a slow start to the year as I mentioned earlier, being down sequentially compared to the fourth quarter as virus outbreaks and challenges with vaccine rollouts tempered improvements in the first-quarter flight hours. The pace of this acceleration will vary regionally, with domestic travel clearly recovering faster than international travel. And country-by-country dynamics will make this difficult to predict. We remain cautious in our ramp expectations here as this unfolds. We continue to see moderate demand for U.S. defense and space, offset by lower-than-expected international defense volumes. As a result of these dynamics, we expect organic growth for the year in aerospace to trend toward the low end of our flat to low single-digit guidance, which we provided in January, and overall, aerospace segment margin expansion to be somewhat impacted by the slower ramp and high-margin commercial aftermarket sales. In HBT, we still expect organic sales growth to be up low single digits for the year. The business is seeing robust activity and is trending toward the upper end of the low single-digit range, with continued demand for building products, and management systems, and continued momentum in healthy building solutions fueling that growth. We continue to expect segment margin expansion driven by higher sales on a streamlined cost base. In PMT, our expectations have not changed materially from our initial guidance. We still expect organic sales growth to be slightly -- to be down slightly to up low single digits for the year. The recovery is progressing with strength in advanced materials and improvement in process solutions products and a slower recovery in HPS projects and UOP catalysts as customer spending has not materially changed, delaying projects and reloads, which contributes to our view that we are trending toward the low end of this -- at this time. We continue to expect sequential segment margin expansion throughout the year in PMT driven by cost management and some improved mix from UOP in the second half, though the specific timing of that remains uncertain. The recovery in oil and gas looks to be building momentum for a stronger 2022. Finally, in SPS, warehouse and workflow solutions, PPE, and productivity solutions and services are all trending better than expected in January. We now expect higher double-digit organic sales growth than in our previous guidance as short-cycle sales accelerated in productivity solutions and services and will be accelerating in our sensor businesses, though that will be somewhat tempered by the supply tightness I mentioned earlier. The increase in warehouse automation sales, which are lower margin as you know, will impact our overall SPS segment margins, though this will be partially offset by increased sales in the higher-margin PPE and productivity solutions businesses. Now let's turn to Slide 8 and talk about our updated guidance for the year. Given the macro and segment backdrop I just talked about, our strong outperformance in the first quarter, and our confidence in our ability to deliver through the economic recovery, we are raising our full-year sales, earnings per share, and free cash flow guidance. We now expect sales of $34.0 billion to $34.8 billion, which represents overall organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 5%, an increase of two points in the low end and one point on the high end compared to our previous guidance. Given that our strengthening sales outlook is heavily driven by our lower-margin SPS segment, we are maintaining our segment profit guidance in the range of 20.7% to 21.1%, an expansion of 30 to 70 basis points for the year. We still expect margin expansion in all of our segments as we carefully invest back into the business while managing the multispeed recovery across the portfolio. We do not expect material changes to our net below-the-line impact at this time, which we estimate to be in the range of negative $130 million to a positive $20 million for the year, including capacity for $400 million to $525 million of repositioning. We continue to expect a full-year effective tax rate of approximately 21% to 22%, and a weighted average share count of approximately 705 million for the year, representing our minimum 1% reduction in shares. As a result, we're raising the low end of our adjusted earnings per share guidance and now expect a range of $7.75 to $8, up 9% to 13%. This represents an increase of $0.15 in the low end, effectively increasing the midpoint of our guidance by approximately $0.08. We expect free cash flow in the range of $5.2 billion to $5.5 billion, which is higher than the low end of our previous guide by $100 million. So overall, a great start to the year and a meaningful upgrade to our full-year view and sales, segment profit, cash, and ultimately, adjusted EPS as we manage the initial stages of this recovery. So with that, I'll turn the call back over to Darius.Darius Adamczyk -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Greg. Before we wrap up, I'd like to take a minute on Slide 8 to discuss ESG. At Honeywell, we consistently say and firmly believe that a robust environmental, social, and governments framework enable us -- enables us a long-term success. In fact, responsible corporate citizenship is an essential part of our value creation framework. Importantly, we announced a commitment earlier this month to become carbon neutral in our operations and facilities by 2035. This represents a continuation of our ongoing sustainability efforts which have already reduced the greenhouse gas intensity of our operations and facilities by more than 90% since 2004. In addition, we worked extensively to increase energy efficiency, conserve water, minimize waste, and proactively champion responsible remediation projects that restore valuable community assets. We plan to achieve our commitment through a combination of further investments in energy savings projects, conversion to renewable energy sources, completion of capital improvement projects at our sites and in our fleet of company vehicles, and utilization of credible carbon credits. We have decades-long history of innovating to help customers meet their environmental and social goals. In fact, about half of Honeywell's new product introduction in research and development investment is directed toward products that improve environmental and social outcomes for customers. For example, the widespread adoption of Honeywell's Solstice line of low global warming potential refrigerants, blowing agents, and aerosols has already reduced the equivalent of more than 200 million metric tons of carbon dioxide to date, equal to eliminating the emissions from more than 42 million cars. A few days ago, we announced that Whole Foods Market has adapted the solti -- Solstice N40 lower global warming potential refrigerant in more than 100 of U.S. stores as it seeks to reduce refrigerant emissions under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's GreenChill program. This is just one example of how our innovative products and services continue to improve customer sustainability profiles and how Honeywell is playing an active role in shaping a future that is safer and more sustainable for generations to come. Now, let's wrap up on Slide 10. In summary, we delivered a strong start to 2021 with first-quarter results that exceeded expectations. We're seeing promising signs of rapid recovery in some of our markets and we're executing in our rigorous and proven value creation framework, which consistently delivers shareholder outperformance in all economic cycles and will continue to enable us to return to our key long-term growth commitments in 2021 and beyond. With that, Mark, let's move to Q&A.Mark Bendza -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Darius. Darius and Greg are now available to answer your questions. We ask that you please be mindful of others in the queue by asking only one question. Jake, please open the line for Q&A. 