
OperatorThank you for standing by, and welcome to the O'Reilly Automotive First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]Thank you. Now I'd like to hand the conference over to Tom McFall. Mr. McFall, please go ahead.Tom McFall -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 



Thank you, Jack. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. During today's conference call, we'll discuss our first quarter 2021 results and our updated outlook for the full year of 2021. After our prepared comments, we'll host a question-and-answer period. Before we begin this morning, I'd like to remind everyone that our comments today contain forward-looking statements, and we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as estimate, may, could, will, believe, expect, would, consider, should, anticipate, project, plan, intend or similar words. The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, and other recent SEC filings. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call. At this time, I'd like to introduce Greg Johnson.Greg Johnson -- Chief Executive Officer and Co-PresidentThanks, Tom. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the O'Reilly Auto Parts first quarter conference call. Participating on the call with me this morning are Jeff Shaw, our Chief Operating Officer and Co-President; and Tom McFall, our Chief Financial Officer. David O'Reilly, our Executive Chairman; and Greg Henslee, our Executive Vice Chairman, are also present on the call. I'd like to begin our call today by thanking Team O'Reilly on another outstanding record-breaking quarter. While our expectations were for a strong first quarter based on business trends and comparisons, to say the results of the first quarter were record-breaking just doesn't do real justice to the incredible performance of our team, highlighted by a 24.8% increase in comparable store sales, a 526 basis point increase in operating margin and an impressive 78% increase in diluted earnings per share.

 



The last year plus since the onset of the pandemic has been one of the most challenging periods in the history of our company, and we are especially pleased our team was able to once again rise to the occasion and deliver these outstanding results while adhering to strict safety protocols. Simply put, Team O'Reilly has responded in an amazing fashion to provide excellent customer service, and I am profoundly grateful for the hard work and sacrifice of each member of our team. As we highlighted in our press release yesterday, our first quarter comps benefited from a continuation of the robust broad-based sales trend we've experienced for several quarters now as well as a favorable weather environment for most of the quarter.As a result of these factors, we're very pleased with our comp performance through the first 2.5 months of the quarter. In mid-March, the most recent round of government stimulus payments hit, at which point we saw ourselves grow -- our sales growth accelerate meaningfully. From a cadence perspective, our quarter played out with very strong results in January, aided by beneficial weather and additional government stimulus. February followed a similar trend, with some offsetting pressure from inclement weather in the middle of the month that significantly impacted many of our Southern U.S. markets that are not accustomed to this type of winter weather.This headwind temporarily cut into our professional business as customers held off on risking the roads to bring their vehicles in for service, but we still finished February above our expectations. March was easily our highest comp of the quarter against the soft prior year comparisons, driven by continued strong underlying trends, favorable timing of spring weather and the stimulus benefit. In total, our first quarter comparable store sales growth of 24.8% and our two-year comparable store sales stack of 22.9% strongly exceeded our expectations. As you would expect, we are also pleased with the composition of our sales results in the first quarter as we saw strength in all areas of our business.Both our DIY and professional businesses contributed strongly to our sales results for the quarter, with our DIY business being the bigger contributor, similar to what we've experienced in recent quarters, driven by strong ticket comp -- ticket count comps as well as continued robust increases in average ticket comps. Additionally, our professional business also performed extremely well, with the brief inclement weather pressure in February I just discussed. On that side of the business, we also saw an acceleration in ticket count comps and strong growth in average ticket. Average ticket on both sides of our business was healthy despite a limited benefit of approximately 1.5% from same SKU inflation, indicated a continued ability and willingness of our customers to invest in their vehicles and work on larger projects.

 



From a category standpoint, we continue to see broad-based, robust sales trends across categories, with strong performance in our DIY out-front categories and batteries. During the first quarter, we also benefited from strong demand in weather-related categories as well as under car hard part categories. The harsh winter weather this year and the associated wear and tear it inflicts on vehicles is a positive development after the last two mild winters in our industry and should support demand in under car categories as we move through the next two quarters.Now I'd like to discuss the update to our full year comparable store sales guidance and our outlook for the remainder of the year. As we announced in our earnings release yesterday, we are increasing our full year comparable store sales guidance to a range of 1% to 3% from our previous range of down 2% to flat. This increase in our expectations is based on the strength of our first quarter results and our continued robust performance quarter-to-date in April. This is an exception to our normal practice, where we historically have not factored into our guidance revisions any business trends subsequent to the end of the quarter we are reporting because of the extreme volatility we can see over such a short time frame.However, the continued extremely strong sales momentum we saw at the end of March, aided by the latest round of stimulus, has continued into April, and we feel it appropriate to reflect this outperformance in our annual guidance update. As we look forward to the rest of 2021, we remain confident in the positive underlying fundamentals of consumer demand in our industry. Even before we started to see the impact of the most recent rounds of stimulus at the end of the first quarter, we were capitalizing on strong demand from DIY consumers willing to take on larger jobs and invest in repairing and maintaining their vehicles.We've also been encouraged by the improving trends on the professional side of our business, even as we remain in an environment of decreased employment, increased work-from-home arrangements and lower miles driven in the U.S. We can't be certain regarding the pace of improvements in these factors given the uncertain nature of how the economy will exit the pandemic, but we remain confident we will benefit as miles driven return to historical norms. However, we remain cautious in our outlook as we move forward through the rest of 2021 and still anticipate potentially significant quarter-to-date variability due to fading tailwinds from the government stimulus and the potential that some demand has been pulled forward as a result of the favorable weather backdrop and extremely soft -- strong demand in the first quarter.As a reminder, we faced extremely difficult prior year comparisons in the -- for the remainder of the year, especially on the DIY side of the business, with the most significant pressure in that outlook expected for the second and third quarters. While it remains impossible to predict how the remainder of the year will play out for our industry or the broader economy, we know that a significant driver of our success is completely within our control, and we fully expect to continue to leverage the strength of our business model and industry-leading team to build out strong share gains in 2021. Moving on to gross margin.For the quarter, our gross margin of 53.1% was a 76 basis point increase from the first quarter 2020 gross margin. The improvement was above our expectations built into our guidance range and benefited from the outperformance of a higher-margin DIY business as well as good leverage of distribution costs on the strong sales volume. For the full year of 2021, we continue to expect our gross margin to be in the range of 52.2% to 52.7%. Our guidance continues to include a muted expectation for any gross margin benefit from inflation. To the extent that we see more inflationary pressures than expected, we anticipate pricing in our industry will remain rational. For the first quarter, our earnings per share of $7.06 represents an increase of 78% over $3.97 in the first quarter of 2020 and a compounded two-year growth rate of over 30% compared to the first quarter of 2019.And I want to again congratulate Team O'Reilly on this outstanding performance. For 2021, we are raising our full year guidance to $24.75 to $24.95, an increase of $2.05 from our previous guidance, driven by the strong year-to-date sales results and the excellent operating profit flow-through, which Jeff will discuss in more detail in a moment. The midpoint of our revised guidance now represents an increase of 6% versus 2020 and a two-year compounded annual growth rate of 18% compared to 2019. Our EPS guidance includes the impact of shares repurchased through this call but does not include any additional share repurchases.Before I turn the call over to Jeff, I want to spend a few minutes discussing our inventory position and the status of our supply chain. The strength of our supply chain, including our strong relationships with our supplier base, and the historical investments we've made to build out our industry-leading distribution network and inventory availability has long been a strategic competitive strength for our company. This competitive advantage has really shined through the past year and been a key factor in our strong sales performance, but our supply chain has definitely been pressured as we've experienced elevated sales volumes.We've been pleased with the strong performance of the majority of our supplier base and, overall, our supply chain has held up very well. But we do have room for improvement with a small number of suppliers who have underperformed due to pandemic impacts, raw material shortages or shipping delays. We have also faced pressures in our distribution centers as our dedicated DC teams have been processing record levels of inbound and outbound shipments.Just like in our stores, our DC teams have been working extremely hard to take care of our customers and support the extremely strong sales, even as the current levels of volume have created stress on normal operating capacity of our facilities. We remain very committed to maintaining and growing our competitive advantage and inventory availability and view the current pressures we're facing in the short term. To finish my comments, I want to again express my gratitude to our team for their continued selfless dedication to our company and to our customers. Our first quarter performance was truly incredible and is a testament to the hard work and commitment of our team.I'll now turn the call over to Jeff Shaw. Jeff?Jeff Shaw -- Chief Operating Officer and Co-PresidentThanks, Greg, and good morning, everyone. I want to start today by echoing Greg's comments and thanking Team O'Reilly for the remarkable results in the first quarter. Our team has certainly proved over the course of time that they are steadfastly committed to our customers and able to overcome whatever challenges they encounter in running our business. That dedication has certainly been on display in the past year as our team has responded selflessly to the extreme demands and safety protocols during the pandemic. Our results in the first quarter are just another indication of the degree to which our customers rely on us for excellent customer service, industry-leading parts availability and a seasoned, dedicated, knowledgeable team of professional parts people.Our first quarter of 2021 was truly a record-setting performance. But even as strong as our results were, I think it's actually impossible to fully appreciate the level of hard work and long hours required for our team to produce these results. Our team's response to the extreme weather conditions they faced in the middle of the quarter is just another picture of their relentless commitment to going to the extra mile for their customers. Many of our markets faced severe impacts from the extreme weather conditions, but our store teams went above and beyond to keep our stores open. And our distribution teams match that effort by ensuring access to the parts our stores needed, enabling us to meet the critical needs of our customers.Challenges in our stores, such as treacherous road conditions, pause of electricity and broken water pipes are nothing new for our team, who has proven their resilience in response to countless challenges over the years, whether it be severe winter weather, natural disasters or a global pandemic. Now I'd like to spend some time reviewing the extremely strong operating profit performance and SG&A leverage in the first quarter and our updated outlook for 2021. For the first quarter, we generated an astounding increase in operating margin of 526 basis points and operating profit dollar growth of 63%. As we've discussed since the second quarter of last year, the surge in sales in a short time frame has generated historically high levels of profitability, and those sales gains have continued to outpace our rate of SG&A growth even as we redeployed more SG&A dollars back into our stores to adjust to the sales environment.Our first quarter of 2021 was an almost perfect case of this trend. The quarter saw us increase SG&A per store by 7%, which is well above our historical trends and yet far short of the 24.8% comparable store sales increase that we generated, resulting in an incredible improvement in SG&A leverage of 450 basis points. The SG&A per store growth, which is adjusted for Leap Day in 2020, was driven by additional store payroll hours and associated benefits and other variable operating expenses to meet the strong sales demand as well as higher-than-normal incentive compensation at all levels of the company.As we've said for the last few quarters now, we know this level of SG&A expense leverage isn't the right long-term answer for our business, and we continue to plan to actively manage our cost structure to provide excellent customer service to match the sales environment and ensure that we're allocating sufficient resources through the image appearance of our stores as well as the training and development of our team members. We now estimate that our full year increase in SG&A per store will be approximately 3.5%. This target is up from our original expectation based on our results so far in 2021 and matches the revised comp guidance range that Greg walked through earlier. Based on strong leverage on the robust sales through the date of this call, we now expect operating profit to range between 19.9% to 20.4%, an increase of 90 basis points from our previous guidance.On the expansion front, I'm extremely pleased to announce that this month, we successfully opened our newest DC in Horn Lake, Mississippi, which is just south of Memphis. This new facility took well over a year to plan, design and build, made even more challenging by external delays caused by the onset of the pandemic. But our teams were able to stock the DC with an industry-leading inventory set. And day one, we began shipping larger-than-expected orders to support strong sales growth in our stores in the Memphis and surrounding markets. Over the next several weeks, we will fully ramp up this 580,000-square foot facility to support over 220 stores, with additional capacity for store growth in the middle of the country.Our DC teams remain committed to enhancing our top-notch inventory availability, and we'll continue to develop our distribution network to support strong growth and set the bar for inventory availability in the industry. Finally, before turning the call over to Tom, I'd like to provide a brief update on our store expansion during the quarter. In the first quarter, we opened 66 net new stores spread across 30 states. This progress is in line with our plan for total new store openings of 165 to 175 net new stores for 2021. And we continue to be pleased with our team's ability to successfully open great new store locations, but could still see some delays in design and permitting approvals dependent on local market conditions and municipal agencies. To conclude my comments, I want to once again thank Team O'Reilly for their outstanding performance in the first quarter.Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.Tom McFall -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jeff. I'd also like to thank all of Team O'Reilly for their continued commitment to our customers, which drove our tremendous first quarter performance. Now we'll take a closer look at our quarterly results and additional updates to our guidance for 2021. For the quarter, sales increased $614 million, comprised of a $589 million increase in comp store sales, a $53 million increase in noncomp store sales, a $10 million increase in noncomp nonstore sales, a $35 million decrease from Leap Day 2020 and a $3 million decrease from permanently closed stores.For 2021, we now expect our total revenues to be between $11.8 billion and $12.1 billion. Greg previously covered our gross margin performance for the first quarter, but I want to provide details on our positive LIFO impact, which was $9 million in the first quarter, in line with our expectations and the prior year. As we discussed when we set our full year gross margin guidance, we are anticipating a larger positive impact from LIFO in the first half of 2021, which will partially offset pressure to our POS margins from the tariff exclusions that have expired.Our first quarter effective tax rate was 23.5% of pre-tax income, comprised of a base rate of 24.4% and reduced by a 0.9% benefit for share-based compensation. This compares to the first quarter of 2020 rate of 20.9% of pre-tax income, which was comprised of a base tax rate of 21.8%, reduced by a 0.9% benefit for share-based compensation. The first quarter of 2021 base rate was in line with our expectations. The lower 2020 tax rate was the result of the timing of renewable energy tax credits realized in the first quarter of last year. For 2021, we expect to realize benefits from renewable energy tax credits in the fourth quarter.For the full year of 2021, we continue to expect an effective tax rate of 23%, comprised of a base rate of 23.4%, reduced by a benefit of 0.4% for share-based compensation. These expectations assume no significant changes to existing tax codes. Also, variations in the tax benefit for share-based compensation can create fluctuations in our quarterly tax rates. Now I'll move on to free cash flow and the components that drove our results and our revised expectations for 2021. Free cash flow for the first quarter of 2021 was $790 million versus $227 million in the first quarter of 2020, with the significant increase driven by increased operating income, decreased net inventory, an increase in accounts -- excuse me, an increase in income tax payable and the comparisons to the 2020 investments and renewable energy projects as a result of the timing of these projects and associated cash tax benefits last year.For 2021, we now expect free cash flow to be in the range of $1.1 billion to $1.4 billion versus our previous guidance of $1 billion to $1.3 billion based on our strong first quarter operating profit and cash flow performance, offset by our expectation that some of the benefit we saw in the first quarter for the reduction in net inventory and taxes payable will reverse as we move through the year. Inventory per store at the end of the quarter was $637,000, which was down 2% from the beginning of the year and down 0.8% from this time last year, driven by the extremely strong sales volumes, particularly at the end of the quarter.As we discussed on last quarter's call, when we outlined our full year expectations for inventory per store, our plan for 2021 to carry over from 2020 is to add just over $100 million of additional inventory in our store and hub network, above and beyond our normal new store and typical product additions. And we still expect to complete this plan and grow inventory at approximately 4% per store in 2021. However, the timing of these incremental inventory additions will be impacted by the more immediate need of supporting the replenishment needs of our stores.And we could see some further delays to these initiatives if sales trends remain at historic highs. Our AP-to-inventory ratio at the end of the first quarter was 119%, which was an all-time high for our company and heavily influenced by the extremely strong sales volumes and inventory turns over the last year. We anticipate that our AP-to-inventory ratio will gradually moderate from this historic high as we complete our additional inventory investments and when our sales growth moderates. Our current expectation is to finish 2021 at a ratio of approximately 109%. Capital expenditures for the first quarter were $95 million, which was down $38 million from the same period of 2020, driven by the timing of expenditures for new stores and DC development activity.We continue to forecast capex to come in between $550 million and $650 million for the full year. Moving on to debt. We finished the first quarter with an adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 1.88 times as compared to the end of 2020 ratio of 2.03 times, with the reduction driven by the significant growth in first quarter EBITDAR. We continue to be below our leverage target of 2.5 times, and we'll approach that number when appropriate. We continue to execute our share repurchase program.And during the first quarter, we repurchased 1.5 million shares at an average price per share of $450.65 for a total investment of $665 million. We remain very confident that the average repurchase price is supported by the expected future discounted cash flows of our business, and we continue to view our buyback program as an effective means of returning excess capital to our shareholders. Before I open up the call to answer your questions, I'd like to again thank the O'Reilly team for all their contributions to our company's outstanding results. This concludes our prepared comments.And at this time, I'd like to ask Jack, the operator to turn to your line, and we'll be happy to answer your questions.