
Operator[Operator Instructions] Good morning and welcome to United Airlines Holdings Earnings Conference Call for the Third Quarter 2021. My name is Brandon and I'll be your conference facilitator today. Following the initial remarks from management, we will open the lines for questions. [Operator Instructions] I will now turn the presentation over to your host for today's call, Kristina Munoz, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Kristina Munoz -- Director, Investor RelationsThank you, Brandon. Good morning everyone, and welcome to United's third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Yesterday, we issued our earnings release which is available on our website at ir.united.com. Information in yesterday's release and the remarks made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, which represent the company's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events and financial performance. All forward-looking statements are based upon information currently available to the company. Number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to our earnings release Form 10-K and 10-Q and other reports filed with the SEC by United Airlines Holdings and United Airlines for more thorough description of these factors.

 



Also during the course of the call, we'll discuss several non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, please refer to the tables at the end of our earnings release. Joining us in Chicago today to discuss our results and outlook are Chief Executive Officer, Scott Kirby; President, Brett Hart; Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Andrew Nocella; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Gerald Laderman. In addition, we have other members of the executive team on the line available to assist with the Q&A. And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Scott.Scott Kirby -- Chief Executive OfficerGood morning everyone, and thanks for joining us today. I want to start by expressing my thanks to the team at United for taking care of our customers and each other during an eventful summer, and what we've done in the last 19 months stand out even more than in normal times, as we've also been a part of the humanitarian relief efforts around the world; flying over 160 million doses of vaccine, returning thousands of refugees from Afghanistan, and delivering thousands of tons of oxygen canisters and medical equipment to India, among many other things. Despite the personal stress and strain from the pandemic, our people have continued to run a reliable operation and deliver phenomenal customer service avoiding the significant issues that have plagued far too many in the aviation industry.The United team is emerging from COVID as the leader in global aviation. Most prominently, leading on safe, by effectively and efficiently implementing our early vaccine requirement. We kicked off the third quarter with strong momentum as pent up leisure demand soared and bookings -- business bookings began moving in the right direction. So, we obviously knew that the delta variant was a risk. Andrew will give you more details about the ups and downs of the second half of this year, but from my perspective, the long-term recovery remains on track with the opening of Europe, Australia and Singapore, and an expected inflection point in business demand now anticipated in January.

 



Before we move to the traditional discussion about the near-term environment, I want to take a few minutes to at least lay out our view of four big picture trends that we believe make United Airlines the airline investment choice for longer-term shareholders.Number one, we will lead on costs. Inflation is high but within our expectations and we remain on track for CASM-ex down in 2022; down approximately 4% in 2023, and down approximately 8% in 2026 versus 2019. I know there are some skeptics on this, but it really is just the math of 30% plan to gauge growth, but there are also real industry leading unique structural technology and efficiency changes that were implemented at United. I can see it as I just walk through airports or read press comments about hiring struggles at other airlines; something that is not happening at United because we really have become much more efficient during COVID.Number two, geography becomes a competitive advantage. During the pandemic, United's geography has been a greater headwind than any other US airline, given our largest business coastal hub [Phonetic] and international exposure. The domestic and Latin revenues, where United is the smallest in percentage terms, have been running in the 70% to 90% range versus 2019. While the Atlantic and Pacific, where United is the largest, have been down 20% or more. However, despite those significant geographical headwinds, we've managed to produce results in line with or better than the industry in terms of minimizing losses. But most importantly for investors, we expect those headwinds to become a long-term tailwind as the supply of international wide-body aircraft is significantly different than the domestic narrow-body supply post-pandemic. We expect the Atlantic and the Pacific to significantly outperform the domestic market for many years to come, which will turn our current geographic disadvantage during COVID into a sustainable long-term advantage for United global network.Number 3, unlocking the power of United Next and growing our revenue stream. Higher connectivity and noticeably improving product and the extraordinary service of the United professionals, I mentioned at the top, are already driving rapidly improving NPS scores in customer choice. We expect that improvement will accelerate as we take delivery of hundreds of new customer-friendly, narrow-body aircraft, and retrofit all of our remaining narrow-bodies in the next several years. This will make United the airline customers choose to fly and help us drive premium revenue.

 



Number four, ESG. United today is the leader in global aviation with our unique and real, not [Indecipherable] commitment to climate change action and the work we're doing on diversity as exemplified by the United Aviate Academy. And this, already matters to customers, employees and regulators. And I think you'll see it reflected in customer choice, and perhaps, even evaluations in the years to come. And all of that leads to our United net financial outlook. We will absolutely hit our CASM-ex target, and we remain on track.And on the revenue front, our United Next target, assume that it takes all the way until 2026 to return to 2019 [Indecipherable] level. While we're hopeful and actually expect the [Indecipherable] trajectory will be stronger than that, that hopefully conservative assumption still leads to an adjusted pre-tax margin of around 14% and adjusted EPS of around 20% at our current share count.In closing, COVID appears to be playing out remarkably close to what we expected in May of last year. Our expectation back then was that demand will probably remain depressed until Christmas of 2021, and the business demand wouldn't start in earnest until January of 2022. But we always believed that total demand, including international, would ultimately fully recover. That forecast now looks remarkably prescient, and we found new and successful international market in India and Africa. We anticipate a robust European recovery and we're just now beginning to see the openings across the Pacific, starting with Australia and Singapore. United's perspective was singularly unique, both on the depth of the crisis but also on the ultimate strength of the recovery. That put us in a position to make long-term decisions on fleet and permanent changes to our cost structure. And we're now uniquely set up to reap the rewards of those decisions.And with that, I'll hand it over to Brett.Brett J. Hart -- PresidentThanks, Scott. I'd also like to thank our employees for their hard work in the quarter. July was our busiest month since the start of the pandemic. Despite regularly changing mandates restriction and new protocols that have been part of commercial air travel in 2021, our team did a fantastic job helping our customers get to their destination as seamlessly as possible, as evidenced by our record high NPS scores year-to-date. We are now past what we believe is the worst of the booking impact from this wave of the delta variant.And looking ahead, there are some recently announced regulatory changes that are driving momentum in bookings. We were pleased by the announcement that the US entry restrictions on travelers from Europe, UK, India and other international locations, the so-called 212 restrictions will be lifted by November 8 and replaced by a global proof of vaccination requirement for all international visitors entering the US. We look forward to more specific details including the effective date of the changes to avoid any confusion about the new requirements for our customers and employees.Since the announcement, we have seen a 35 point increase in year-over-two-year system bookings from international point of sale agencies for travel in November and December. This gives us even more confidence in our expectation that summer '22, particularly over the Atlantic, will be robust. Additionally, we have repeatedly innovated and upgraded our United app, our industry leading tool, which outlines for our customers the travel recommendations and requirements as it relates to quarantines, vaccination or COVID-19 tests. This tool gives United customers an advantage as they navigate the evolving [Technical Issues] of rules and regulations and reduce as much stress as possible at the airport. We are ready for the returning international travelers.Lastly, as Scott mentioned, with the exception of a small number of employees and sort of religious and medical combination more than 99.7% of our US employees chose to get vaccinated. We're committed to providing the safest environment possible. It also means that our customers can book with confidence knowing that United's operation and their travel experience will not be hampered by changes to government vaccine regulations.Speaking of the reliability of our operations, we have been proactive on the hiring front. During the first three quarters of 2021, we hired nearly 1,000 pilots, which is more than we hired in all of 2019 and what will bring new classes of flight attendants. On ESG, in the third quarter, we partnered with Honeywell to make yet another investment that contributes to our journey to become 100% green by 2050. Last month, we announced the industry's largest sustainable aviation fuel agreement, in which we commit to purchase 1.5 billion gallons of SAF over 20 years, making our total commitment more than double; the combined total of the rest of the world's airlines public SAF commitments.Last week, we also became the first airline to fly a flight on 100% sustainable aviation fuel, due to both important steps in our goal of reducing our emissions by 50%, on carbon intensity basis by 2035, and to net zero by 2015. The third quarter was also punctuated by the prices in Afghanistan. We recall [Technical Issues] US military and bringing 15,000 Afghans into the US and troops back home. We've operated approximately 40 civil reserving air fleets or craft flights to date. We also converted our maintenance hangar in Dulles Airport to a temporary shelter where traveling evacuees could rest, get a warm meal and take a breath after enduring such a remarkable journey. More than 8,000 employees raised their hands to participate in these missions working as crew members, translators [Phonetic], paramedics and more. Many volunteers have personal ties to Afghanistan or to our military veterans. I want to take this opportunity to extend my heartfelt thanks for their service.We're also helping Afghans to begin their new lives in the US through our partnership with Miles4Migrants where we have donated 15 million miles and continue to support and incentivize donations from our MileagePlus members. As you can see the spirit of innovation at United has not been dimmed by the pandemic. In fact, we've relied on it to adapt to the changing economic or regulatory environments and put our expertise to work to help those in need. That makes me incredibly proud of this company and it gives all of us more confidence in our ability to meet the financial targets we've laid out. I'll now hand it off to Andrew to describe in more detail on how we plan to do that.Andrew Nocella -- Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial OfficerThanks, Brent. Before talking about the third quarter results or the fourth quarter outlook. It's important to acknowledge the impact of the delta variant on our business was substantial. However, we expect the worst of this wave is now passed. In the last two weeks, we've seen on several of our leading business indicators have returned to where we were in July or better. Those indicators include, number one, passenger cancellation rates are close to 2019 levels and consistent with pre-delta level. Two, positive domestic co-brand spend for the quarter of new card acquisition is above 2019 levels and retention level is better than 2019. Three, passenger bookings for November and beyond travel have been above 2019 levels for the last week. A strong bounce back from a few weeks ago. Four, demand for Atlantic travel is consistent with 2019 levels since the announcement of lower travel restrictions and yesterday was up 19%. Five, domestic business demand has rebounded to pre-delta levels or better, and our largest accounts are now increasing at a similar rate to our smallest. Six, business traffic across the Atlantic is now tracking [Phonetic] consistent with or slightly better than domestic business traveling. Seven, Brazilian demand is rebounded quickly, matching the strength we've seen in for months, in mere Latin demand. Eight, book yield for upcoming holidays are positive as well as early '22 are positive. Nine, awards booking levels have exceeded 2019 levels this week for the first time.While we believe these leading indicators are solid evidence of a bright outlook for United, another set of positive indicators that we've been tracking in recent months is the relative strength of our premium leisure business during the pandemic. These indicators include, one, domestic first class revenue reached 2019 levels this summer with paid load factors 5 points above. 50% of our revenue in transatlantic leisure market came from the premium cabins in 2021, a 13 point improvement versus 2019. Three, paid load factors for our Economy Plus increased by 10 points relative to 2019 this summer. And four, ancillary receipt revenues in Q3 were a record $9.17 per plane passenger, and that's basically at 2019 levels, despite 28% less demand.Whenever I talk about United Next, our long-term strategy, I tend to focus on domestic gauge growth of 30% and it's importance. However, United Next also grows premium seating [Indecipherable] across our domestic fleets, simply closing the gaps we've had to our primary competitors, our matching demand and our southern hubs that we've missed in the past few years. This recent trend of increased premium leisure demand is a material incremental revenues for our long-term outlook and has the potential to increase overall leisure yields by 2 to 3 points versus our original long-term outlook. While we still believe this traffic will return in full, our plans will succeed, even if it only returns to 85% to 90% of these levels given the yield -- these are yield gains if the prove permanent.Furthering our revenue segmentation and premium leisure efforts, we've made the decision to outfit our 14 remaining 767-300s with our new mid-tier premium plus product, so that all 767s now include this product. We can also confirm that will offer the separate mid tier cabin on future deliveries of the A320 large jet in 2024.Relative to 2019, premium plus performance across the Atlantic was our best performing cabin. Our revenue segmentation strategies have always been about offering a range of products customers want to use, from Polaris to premium plus to basic economy. Effective segmentation makes our business model more durable when faced with elevated levels of competition, something we anticipate domestically in the coming year.I'll now turn to my new role [Phonetic] update of our performance in the quarter and our near-term outlook. I'll also provide an early preview of our internationally focused 2022 capacity blend. Traveling for the third quarter, finishing on 5% and total revenues were down 32% versus 2019. United did achieve a positive year over to -- traveling for July as expected. Passenger yields were positive in July and August versus '19 but fell by 10% in September, given the large but temporary industry supply demand imbalance caused by the delta variant. The impact of lower pricing and yield will continue into the part of the fourth quarter with October performance only marginally better than September. Close-in bookings continue to track below 2019 levels but are getting better week over week for the last few weeks. Just as in previous quarters, our cargo operation again delivered a record quarter for United total cargo revenue was up 84% from 2019, and was the best third quarter on record. United cargo is once again reviewed all cargo flights that are available, wide-body jets, for the remainder of the year, which we expect will once again result in leading cargo performance.Turning to our fourth quarter outlook, we now expect total revenue to be down 25% to 30% versus 4Q 2019, with November and December at the top end of the range. Though the delta variance impact on leisure demand is now gone, its impact on business travel and yield in the fourth quarter continues. We expect capacity to be down 23% in the fourth quarter versus 2019, down 13% for domestic and 35% for international. We continue to slowly add back capacity consistent with our capabilities to deliver a consistent operation for our customers, while also managing our expectations for demand.By December, we expect domestic capacity will only be down 9% as we prepare for a very strong holiday season. Our fleet of 52 Pratt & Whitney powered 777s are not expected to fly this quarter and we continue to have 57 idle [Indecipherable] jets temporarily grounded. We expect most of these grounded jets to return to service by June 2022, in time for strong summer demand.As I indicated earlier, bookings to Latin America and across the Atlantic have reacted well to the lowering of restrictions for travel November 8 and beyond. We remain optimistic that our Latin and Atlantic client [Phonetic] will gradually build to 2019 levels and above by summer 2022 and business traffic will accelerate early next year. We currently expect capacity for 2022 to be up approximately 5% versus 2019. Our plan -- consider our expectation of [Indecipherable] macro demand, supply and pricing and focus 100% of our growth in the international markets where we expect capacity to be up about 10% versus 2019.As a result, we expect domestic capacity for 2022 to be approximately flat. We remain agile to new planes around as needed or even ground unneeded widebody jets if conditions warrant. Consistent with our plan for international growth for 2022, last week we announced 10 new Atlantic routes that are focused on premium leisure destinations, such as [Indecipherable] or Italy. Most of our new routes have common theme of premium leisure business as we continue to diversify our global revenue streams, which in the past, were very business-centric.We're also diversifying our geographic scope across the Atlantic to India, Africa and the Middle East. Many of our new routes also have low historic shares with United and our star partners. One additional common feature of all these routes is the potential of our leading gateways in New York and Washington. We have one more significant international network announcement planned for later this month as we work toward finalizing our 2022 outlook. As the leading US airline across the Pacific, we do expect slower demand recovery versus other parts of the world. We've seen some really great news in recent days with the partial opening of Australia and Singapore. Most of our capacity across the Pacific in Q4 is being supported by further [Phonetic] revenues.We continue to expect international long-haul of flying [Indecipherable] a strong period of margin improvement versus the last cycle and we are positioned in our capacity to take advantage of that trend. Not only have many widebody jets retired across industry, but we expect that the industry premium seat capacity for the largest Atlantic carriers will be down approximately 10% per departure to 46 seats as many aircraft, including the 747s and the A380s with large premium cabins have been grounded. The United widebody jets have an average of 46 flare [Phonetic] seats, approximately the same number as our primary Atlantic competitors.As we rebuild our global network, our Polaris lounges are now set to reopen over the next few months, starting with our brand new club at Washington Dulles tomorrow. Briefly, I wanted to talk about our United Next signature interior. We've now taken delivery of 13 MAX 8s with the signature interior and it's a hit with our team and our customers. Each of these land has NPS scores materially higher than any other domestic mainline jet we fly, and has large economy cabins with seat-back monitors at every seat. We will soon begin modifications of the remainder of the narrow-body jets so that by early 2025, the entire mainline fleet has this consistent, superior look and feel.Thanks for indulging me in this rather long explanation of where things stand, but more importantly, where we're taking United. I have to give thanks to the entire United team for delivering this summer in pretty difficult conditions.And with that, I'm going to hand it off to Gerry to discuss our financial results and outlook.Gerald (Gerry) Laderman -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Andrew. Good morning, everyone. Andrew, we truly enjoyed your verbose remarks, but everyone can take comfort in the fact that I will be shorter. For the third quarter of 2021, we reported pre-tax income of around $600 million and an adjusted pre-tax loss of around $500 million. This was obviously different from our expectations when we spoke to you in July, but as Scott and Andrew discussed, this loss is solely attributable to the impact of the delta-variant on customer travel in the months of August and September. The good news is that our third quarter CASM-ex of up 15% was better than our guidance and we are on track for further improvement in the fourth quarter. We currently expect CASM-ex in the fourth quarter to increase 12% to 14% versus the fourth quarter of 2019 on capacity down around 23% versus the fourth quarter of 2019.Looking beyond this year. We are in a middle of putting together our financial plan for 2022 and expect to share more color with you in January. However, I wanted to highlight a few items now that give us confidence in our CASM-ex outlook. First, we are exceeding our target on structural cost savings as we have identified approximately $2.2 billion in initiatives, which we expect to fully benefit from by next summer. As the proof point of this success, we estimate that we can flight schedule ten percent larger than 2019, with the same number of employees we needed in 2019. This includes a significant and permanent reduction in management employees.Second, we expect to return all 52 on ground 777s to service in the first half of next year. This allows us to more appropriately match the right aircraft to right markets, which will ultimately drive a step function CASM-ex improvement as these both CASM-ex and high gauge aircraft return to the fleet.Third, our outlook for 2022 includes the higher inflationary pressure we are seeing today across all aspects of our business, ranging from vendors wage pressures to supply chain bottlenecks. It is for these three reasons that I am confident that our 2022 outlook of CASM-ex lower than 2019 is both fair and achievable. Importantly, it also sets a firm foundation for achieving the negative 4% and negative 8% CASM-ex goals for 2023 and 2026, which we've already discussed. In fact, I feel more confident today that our 2023 and 2026 goals than I did back in June.Importantly, we are committed to achieving these cost targets while also investing in the superior product and experience for our customers. For example, all of our new narrow-body aircraft are being delivered with state-of-the-art interiors, including overhead bins, everyone's carry-on bags, and bluetooth enabled seat back entertainment with a long list of choices displayed on large HD quality screens. We are also retrofitting the rest of our fleet to be consistent with these standards. In fact, I was recently on a new 737 MAX 8 flying home from New York to Houston [Indecipherable] Belgium, Brussels. The flight was completely full and everyone found room for their bags. The flight crew made sure the customers knew about all the amenities as the crew was engaged with everyone from pre-boarding, throughout the flight, and as the customers deplaned. 15 minutes early by the way. As I strolled through the cabin during the flight, by my count, at least two-thirds of the passengers were enjoying the seat back system, and I even noticed several children entertained with our new children's amenity kit.After this flight, I was curious about the net promoter score and sure enough, the NPS for the flight was over 40% higher than system average last year. We will continue to make these types of revenue enhancing product investments, while we continue to reduce unit costs because of our plans for efficient gauge driven growth, as well as our $2.2 billion structural cost savings program.Turning to capital expenditures, we currently expect to take delivery of three 737 MAX aircraft and one 787 aircraft through the end of this year. In addition to the 24 mainline aircraft already delivered this year. A number of 787 deliveries previously expected this year are now expected to reoccur next year, which results in the related capex shifted out of 2021 into 2022, including this change, we now expect adjusted capex to be around $3 billion in 2021. We expect to use a mix of debt financing leases and cash to fund the acquisition of new aircraft and we'll balance the mix with United Next financial targets in mind, including adjusted total debt to adjusted EBITDA below 4 times in 2023 and below 2.5 times in 2026. As the recovery progresses, we expect to economically pursue deleveraging while balancing our capital commitment. In the third quarter, we made a $375 million voluntary contribution to our pension which will drive PBGC premium savings and access to returns on the funds added. While we are not required to make any meaningful contribution to our pensions for several years, we view our pension obligation as just another form of debt. This is effectively the most expensive pre-payable debt we currently had, and we took the opportunity to pay.In closing, as the impact of the delta-variant appears to be receiving, we continue our focus on managing the business efficiently to maximize our earnings power for the long term. Our focus on cost and revenue initiatives will drive improving margins, leading to a 2026 adjusted pre-tax margin of around 14% and adjusted EPS of around $20 at current quarter-end share count. While we have never expected the recovery from the pandemic being linear, we are confident that United best days are ahead as we execute on our United next strategy in the coming years.And with that, I'll pass it to Kristina to start the Q&A.Kristina Munoz -- Director, Investor RelationsThank you, Gerry. We will now take your questions from the analyst committee. Please limit yourself to one question, and if needed, one follow-up question. Brandon, please describe the procedure to ask a question.