  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the FIS fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker, Mr. Nathan Rozof, head of investor relations. Please go ahead.Nathan Rozof -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Good morning and thank you for joining us for the FIS fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. The call is being webcasted. Today's news release, corresponding presentation and webcast are all available on our website at fisglobal.com. Gary Norcross, our chairman and CEO, will discuss our operating performance and 2022 priorities. Stephanie Ferris, our president, will describe our strategy to unlock the value of FIS. Woody Woodall, our chief financial officer, will then review our financial results and provide forward guidance. Finally, Erik Hoag, our deputy CFO, will also be joining the call for the Q&A portion. Turning to slide three.Today's remarks will contain forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in the press release and other filings with the SEC. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Please refer to the safe harbor language. Also, throughout this conference call, we will be presenting non-GAAP information, including adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net earnings, adjusted net earnings per share and free cash flow. These are important financial performance measures for the company but are not financial measures as defined by GAAP. Reconciliation of our non-GAAP information to the GAAP financial information are presented in our earnings release. With that, I'll turn the call over to Gary.

 



 Gary? Gary Norcross -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Nate, and thank you for joining us this morning. Starting on slide five. By all metrics, our colleagues delivered a historic operating performance for FIS in 2021. Our strategy continues to resonate with our clients and prospects, and our team continues to execute at an exceptionally high level. For the full year, revenue increased 11% to nearly $14 billion. Margin expanded by over 200 basis points to 44%, and adjusted EPS increased 20% to $6.55 per share. Growth for the year was driven by strong performance across our operating segments, with banking at 8%, capital markets at 8%, and merchant at 19%. In the quarter, merchant came in softer than we expected due to the Omicron variant.

 



 As you will see in our deep dive on merchant later in the deck, without this impact in late November and December, our merchant growth would have been even higher. For the year, we generated record free cash flow of $3.6 billion. We returned $3 billion to shareholders, increased our dividend and acquired Payrix, which will accelerate Merchant's eCommerce offering for platforms that primarily serve SMBs. We also successfully completed the Worldpay integration nearly a year ahead of schedule, beating our initial revenue synergy target by 50% and more than doubling our initial expense synergy target. We had a very strong sales quarter, even with the Omicron variant, due to the strong demand for our differentiated solutions. New sales increased our backlog to a record $23 billion, an increase of 8% organically. By any account, this was a record year for FIS and the strongest operating performance in our 53-year history. Turning to slide six. Given our sales success, we wanted to highlight several landmark wins across our company with clients and prospects who look to FIS as their trusted technology partner to help them to expand or transform their business. In banking, this includes a top 15 global financial institution who wanted to accelerate their growth and expansion in the U.S. by executing a digital strategy. This innovative client selected FIS and the modern banking Platform to modernize their infrastructure using our cloud-native processing platform. They will also use our cloud native Digital One platform to enable their strategy, which was a key selling point in their decision-making process. Additionally, Amerant Bank signed a significant deal to outsource most of their solutions to FIS, which allows them to transform their business from a multi-vendor solution to a single innovation partner. This will drive a significant savings for Amerant while bringing their solutions to the most current technologies, which is a great example of the power of the FIS portfolio. These wins are indicative of how the differentiated capabilities in our banking segment drove the more than 30% increase in new sales for the year. Turning to our merchant segment. Geographic expansion was a core tenet to our strategic rationale of the buy of Worldpay. Throughout 2021, we entered seven new countries, which continued to push accelerated growth in our merchant offerings, especially eCommerce. One of those markets was Argentina. And as a direct result, we signed the country's largest airline this quarter. They chose FIS because they are looking for a trusted partner with a sophisticated vertical expertise and global processing platform that will help them grow their business. Another key rationale for the Worldpay acquisition is our ability to utilize our combined solutions and data to increase authorization rates. We now integrated our merchant and issuer processing solutions to create AuthMax Preferred. This innovative new solution dramatically increases authorization rates for transactions, where we are both the merchant acquirer and issuer processor based on our insight into both sides of the transaction. With this significant innovation, we can improve authorization of historically declined transactions as much as 40% for trusted cardholders of Worldpay's participating merchants. This generates significant revenue uplift for our clients. Based on this advancement, Netflix expanded our long-standing relationship this quarter to quickly take advantage of this new capability. Given our strong pipeline, we are looking forward to building on a record new sales increase in merchant to more than 40% for the year. In capital markets, we signed our largest deal in the history of this business with Franklin Templeton. Like our T. Rowe Price announcement a few quarters ago in the wealth vertical, this anchor client establishes us as a leading global player with a differentiated international transfer agency solution that will provide a new leg of growth for capital markets. Additionally, the recent investments we've made in our cleared derivatives platform are driving significant new wins, including SocGen this quarter, which will transition their middle and back-office through our innovative solution. We could not be more pleased with the structural transformation that has occurred within our capital markets business. This team has done an outstanding job of combining our industry-leading products and to advance end-to-end solutions that are clearly resonating through our sales channel. Like our other segments, capital markets had a record year in sales and organic growth with new sales increasing more than 40% for the year. On slide seven, I'd like to revisit a topic that we discussed last quarter, which is the opportunity that we are seeing in the market to bring solutions together from across our segments. Buyer preferences continue to move in our favor, with clients consuming more of our solutions across their enterprise to create unique client experiences. Last quarter, we brought forward the example of Amazon, first utilizing our NICE debit network capabilities from banking before consuming our omnichannel merchant-acquiring capabilities and adding a treasury and cash management solution from capital markets. Given our success in revenue synergies with the Worldpay integration, we continue to evolve our go-to-market strategies through better organizational alignment, which allows us to take advantage of a broader addressable market for our unique solution set. These changes are driving real results as we grow our list of clients that are working across our business segments in unique and differentiating ways. As we continue to build capabilities, programmatically addressing this opportunity to create innovative new experiences truly unlocks the power of FIS. We will continue to bring this forward in the coming quarters as we think this alone could accelerate our growth rates from current levels. As we close out 2021, I'd like to take a moment to recognize some of the awards FIS earned and to lay out priorities for 2022 on slide eight. This year, we saw a tremendous recognition for our leadership in fintech as a global company. To name a few, Fast Company Magazine named FIS in their Best Workplaces for Innovators' List, which recognizes companies that empower their employees to improve processes, create new products and invent new ways of doing business. In merchant, our Access Worldpay earned honors for Highest Authorization Rate by the Strawhecker Group. In banking, our Unity Wealth Management Platform was named Best Technology for Family Offices in the PAM Awards. And in capital markets, our Cleared Derivative Suite was named Post-Trade System of the Year, Global Investor Group. We were also recognized by Fortune as the Most Admired Company, and we were named the Best Place to Work for the LGBTQ+ community for the fourth consecutive year. Lastly, we were recognized for the Best ESG Reporting by IR Magazine. Turning our focus to 2022. At FIS, we have consistently invested for growth, executed at scale and delivered innovation at the highest level. We will continue to focus on unlocking the power of FIS in an organized and systematic way. This will be centered around delivering compelling new solutions for our clients and taking advantage of our significant head-start in the cloud to innovate at speed. We will also continue to componentize our technology stack to make all our industry-leading solutions available to every client, regardless of the segment where they reside today. This will enable us to expand into attractive new verticals like crypto to capture fast-growing and emerging new markets. We have built FIS into an industry leader over the past 50 years. And in 2022, we will again demonstrate how FIS will further its lead over the next 50 years. This business will continue to grow and generate exceptional profitability and free cash flow, which we'll use to maximize shareholder returns and drive continued strong organic growth rates. Finally, I'd like to address a couple of executive announcements that we made this quarter. First, Bruce Lowthers decided to leave FIS to pursue a role outside the company. Over the past 15 years, Bruce has been a champion of our transformation, and the result of his focus and contributions has been significant acceleration in growth at FIS. Thank you for your service to FIS, Bruce. We wish you all the best with your next role. Second, I'm pleased to announce that I've promoted Stephanie Ferris to be president of FIS. Stephanie returned to the company in September of last year as chief administration officer, after originally joining FIS from the acquisition of Worldpay in 2019. She is a seasoned global executive with over 25 years of experience leading payments and technology platform businesses. She also has impressive experience driving digital transformation, frontline customer engagement and inclusive growth. This is a tremendous achievement, and we are excited to have Stephanie step into this new role. Congratulations, Stephanie. She joins us today and will continue to participate on future earnings calls. Stephanie, welcome. I'll turn the call to you.Stephanie Ferris -- President Thanks, Gary. Good morning, everyone. I'm excited to be here and to share a little bit more about our vision to unlock the power of FIS. FIS is uniquely positioned with the best and broadest set of assets delivered at scale and with global reach. All the start-ups that are coming to market are trying to create what we already have. They want to offer embedded finance solutions and are trying to build those capabilities one by one. We already have leading deposit, lending, issuing and B2B solutions. And we have a large network of financial institutions, capital markets and merchant participants to drive adoption at a global scale. Our clients compete effectively within their traditional segments, but the market post-pandemic has shifted in the lines between traditional segments or foreign. By bringing all of our capabilities together to deliver embedded finance solutions, we have the unique opportunity to help our clients compete and win in this new reality. I'll build on this by providing an example of how we are translating our leading crypto capabilities within eCommerce to drive innovation across all of FIS. Beginning with slide 10, we see merchant's eCommerce opportunity as centered around three segments: enterprise, platforms, and small to medium-sized businesses. Today, our expertise is in the enterprise space. Multinational enterprises and leading global brands choose us because of our global reach, best-in-class authorization and fraud rates and white-glove service. We consistently win landmark clients who need our help to expand into new countries or to help them solve their challenges using our payments expertise. The clients in these segments have unique needs. Serving millions of small businesses directly or through a platform requires specialized capabilities like automated underwriting and onboarding. Payrix will modernize our client experience through their next-generation product suite and enable us to deliver differentiated embedded finance and payment experiences for platforms that primarily serve SMBs, speeding our entry into this high-growth segment of eCommerce. Their team is extremely talented, and we are excited to welcome them into the FIS family. Following the Payrix acquisition, we expect to formally launch our entry into platforms later this year, and I will be back again next quarter to share an update with you about this. But first, on slide 11, I'd like to give you a little more color about how we operate in enterprise eCommerce and provide a case study about why we win in the crypto vertical. We serve four of the top five exchanges and have 100% client retention. Our success reflects a combination of both our product and innovation leadership. FIS was the first to offer Apple Pay for crypto currencies, and now we are launching direct settlement in crypto. We offer 14 payment methods across 46 markets and were named Crypto Payment Service Provider of the Year by Crypto AM in 2021. We were able to quickly expand into this emerging vertical because we have the technology and the expertise to enter new markets faster than our peers. We also have sophisticated solutions that we developed by serving other complex verticals, like travel and airlines, that allow us to assess and properly underwrite new clients that other players may not understand. Here's where it gets interesting. We are expanding our expertise in crypto from merchant to both banking and capital markets. Our clients in all of our segments want access to this high-growth vertical. We're enabling banks to open cryptocurrency accounts for their customers. And we enable them to buy, sell and hold crypto in partnership with NYDIG. By integrating Digital One, our clients can offer these accounts to their customers through their mobile apps, displaying crypto and traditional checking and saving accounts side by side. We are also blazing the trail for cryptocard issuing within our banking segment. FIS will handle all aspects of card management and processing for CEX.IO. This crypto exchange is offering a new line of crypto-based consumer cards across Europe and the U.K. by leveraging our innovative capabilities. Additionally, our capital markets segment developed a software that powers exchanges, traders and asset managers. These solutions are in demand by our crypto exchange clients, and we are quickly deploying our expertise there. In summary, we are expanding the reach of our crypto expertise from merchant to banking and capital markets in order to enable all of our clients to participate in this high-growth vertical. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Woody to discuss our financial results and provide 2022 guidance. Woody?Woody Woodall -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Stephanie, and thank you all for joining us. I will begin with our fourth quarter and full year results, then touch on our balance sheet, cash flow and 2022 guidance before taking you through our enhanced market disclosures. Starting with the fourth quarter on slide 13. On a consolidated basis, revenue grew 11% and adjusted EBITDA margins expanded 120 basis points and generated adjusted EPS of $1.92 per share. Both banking and capital markets revenue grew 8%, while merchant revenue growth accelerated by 500 basis points sequentially to 19%. Banking's adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 30 basis points to 45%, primarily due to continued operating leverage. Merchant's adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 140 basis points to 52%, primarily due to revenue and cost synergies associated with the Worldpay acquisition. Capital markets' adjusted EBITDA margin remained constant at 52%, primarily reflecting higher bonus expense related to strong revenue growth, which offset operating leverage from new wins. Turning to full year results on slide 14. On a consolidated basis, revenue grew 11%. Adjusted EBITDA margins were 44%, and adjusted EPS was $6.55 per share. Adjusted EBITDA margins expanded 220 basis points, primarily due to operating leverage and strong execution of revenue and cost synergies associated with the Worldpay acquisition. In banking, revenue growth accelerated 8%, primarily due to strong new sales execution. Based on our large and growing backlog, as well as our expanding pipeline of new opportunities, we expect banking to continue to grow high single digits in the midterm. In 2022, banking will grow 6% or more due to approximately 200 basis points in grow overs. This is primarily due to lapping pandemic-related stimulus and expected lower termination fees. Merchant revenue grew 19%. While new variants of COVID-19 are affecting near-term results, our strong new sales gives us confidence that merchant will grow low double digits in 2022 and beyond. Capital markets also continues to execute well with revenue growth of 8%. This segment is well positioned to accelerate revenue growth to the mid- to upper-single digits in 2022, driven by another strong year of new sales, cross-sell opportunities and recurring revenue growth. Turning to slide 15. I'll touch on the strength of our balance sheet and free cash flow. We generated $3.6 billion of free cash flow for the full year, which we used to buy back 15 million shares, and we paid nearly $1 billion in dividends during 2021. During the fourth quarter, we generated approximately $850 million in free cash flow, which we primarily used to acquire Payrix. In addition, our board of directors recently increased our quarterly dividend by 21% to $0.47 per share. We intend to increase our dividend by approximately 20% per year. This will allow us to gradually grow our dividend payout ratio to approximately 35% of adjusted net income. Turning to our guidance on slide 16. In the first quarter, we expect organic revenue growth of 7% to 8%. We expect our adjusted EBITDA margin to increase by approximately 50 basis points to 41%. And lastly, we expect to generate adjusted EPS of $1.44 to $1.47 per share. For the full year, we expect organic revenue growth of 7% to 9%. We expect our adjusted EBITDA margin to increase by 50 to 100 basis points to approximately 45%. We expect to generate 150 to 200 basis points of margin expansion from operating leverage and annualization of synergies. This will be partially offset by higher labor costs resulting in our guidance of 50 to 100 basis points of margin expansion for the full year. As a result of our accelerating revenue growth and expanding margins, we expect adjusted EPS to grow 11% to 13% to a range of $7.25 to $7.37 per share for full year 2022. We expect to generate free cash flow growth of approximately 15% and improved conversion of about 27% of revenue, which is approaching 95% of earnings for the full year. To start of the year, we'll repay debt and reduce our leverage below three turns before we resume share repurchase. Our guidance then assumes share repurchases of approximately $3 billion, mostly during the back half of 2022. Please note that we have provided our detailed assumptions for depreciation and amortization, tax rate and share count within the appendix of this presentation on slides 26 and 27. Turning now to our enhanced merchant disclosures on slide 18. Our volume trends continue to track closely with the networks. As compared to 2020, global volume growth remained stable at 17%. As a reminder, the networks also experienced stable volume growth between the third and the fourth quarters. Our U.S. volume growth accelerated by 200 basis points to 19%. This trend is again consistent with the networks. On slide 19, we show volume growth trends as compared to 2019. Our global volume growth remained consistent at 23%, while the networks' volumes accelerated modestly. This is due to our larger U.K. exposure, where Omicron variant had a significant impact, as I will show you in a few minutes. In the U.S., our volume accelerated by 100 basis points to 26%. We do not currently serve SMB eCom or platforms, which help the networks to accelerate slightly more than us this quarter. We're looking to use Payrix as a first step to close this gap, as Stephanie mentioned earlier. As we begin 2022, our volume trends continue to be consistent with the networks in January. International volumes began to improve in January as new Omicron cases started to slow in the U.K. In the U.S., volume growth slowed modestly in January as we lap last year's stimulus. As the Omicron variant recedes, we expect our volumes to continue to track closely with the networks. Turning to slide 20. We updated the detailed subsegment data that we showed last quarter to include our fourth quarter results as compared to 2019. While all our subsegments continue to grow well above 2019 levels, the Omicron variant impacted the fourth quarter. Omicron primarily affected revenue yield as compared to 2019 by reducing the mix of SMB, travel and international volumes for the quarter. On a more positive note, as compared to 2020, merchant yield improved both sequentially and on a year-over-year basis, demonstrating our future revenue growth potential as high-yielding segments recover from the pandemic. Over the next few slides, I will talk you through the results of each subsegment and how they contributed to our merchant revenue growth. Global eCommerce generated $1.2 billion in revenue during 2021, as shown on slide 21. During the fourth quarter, global eCom revenue grew 31% as compared to 2019, excluding travel and airlines. Even with these strong results, we saw the effects of Omicron in travel and airlines. The chart on the right shows our monthly travel volumes versus 2019. Travel accelerated through November, but then pulled back to May levels in December. The difference between same-store sales and our total volume growth is due to new client wins. As travel comes back and exciting new verticals like crypto continue to emerge, we see significant opportunity for future growth. Turning to slide 22. Enterprise generated $2 billion in revenue during 2021. During the fourth quarter, revenue grew 16% year over year and 8% over 2019. In the upper right-hand corner, the impacts of Omicron on the U.K. are obvious, where growth dropped to zero in December from mid-teen levels previously. Our U.S. Enterprise business also saw some pullback in December, but it was not nearly as severe as in the U.K. SMB revenue growth over 2019 decelerated to 11% in the fourth quarter, as shown on slide 23. This is clearly due to Omicron as the deceleration occurred in all verticals. As this variant recedes, we expect growth to reaccelerate. However, we are more excited by the opportunity to push into SMBs with eCommerce. In summary, while we continue to see impacts from the pandemic in the short term, merchant TAM is expected to grow 8% to 10% through the midterm, as shown on slide 24. Further, as we continue to grow eCommerce as a larger and larger portion of our overall revenue mix, we're confident in our ability to outpace TAM growth and to generate low double-digit merchant revenue growth in 2022 and beyond. The combination of merchant growth with our continued strength in banking and capital markets gives us confidence in our 2022 outlook and in the future of FIS. I would like to thank our colleagues for their continued efforts in serving our clients and driving our business forward. With that, I'd like to open the line for Q&A. Operator? 