  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Mike and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Electronic Arts Q4 2021 earnings conference call. Mr. Chris Evenden, VP of investor relations, you may begin your conference.Chris Evenden -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thanks, Mike. Welcome, everyone to EA's fourth-quarter fiscal 2021 earnings call. With me from their homes today are Andrew Wilson, our CEO; and Blake Jorgensen, our CFO and COO. Please note that our SEC filings and our earnings release are available at ir.ea.com. In addition, we've posted earnings slides to accompany our prepared remarks. Lastly, after the call, we'll post our prepared remarks, an audio replay of this call, our financial model and a transcript. Once again, I'd like to direct you to the earnings slides this quarter. They now contain the metrics and color that we've historically included in Blake's remarks.With regards to our calendar, our Q1 fiscal 2022 earnings call is scheduled for Wednesday, August 4th. And as a reminder, we post the schedule of our entire year of upcoming earnings calls on our IR website. This presentation and our comments include forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future financial performance of the company. Actual events and results may differ materially from our expectations. We refer you to our most recent Form 10-Q for a discussion of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed today. Electronic Arts makes these statements as of today, May 11, 2021, and disclaims any duty to update them. During this call, the financial metrics, with the exception of free cash flow, will be presented on a GAAP basis. All comparisons made in the course of this call are against the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise stated.

 



 Now I'll turn the call over to Andrew. Andrew Wilson -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Chris. I hope this finds all of you staying healthy and well. I want to start today by saying welcome to our newest teammates from Codemasters, Glu Mobile and Metalhead Software. We're very excited to have added these incredibly talented teams to the EA family, and we're looking forward to creating some amazing new experiences together. FY '21 was a record year for Electronic Arts. Engagement in our games continues to expand worldwide, leading industry transformation and fueling demand from a new generation of players that will continue for years to come. We delivered 13 new games in FY '21 and welcomed more than 42 million new players to our network of more than 500 million unique accounts. The tremendous engagement across our leading live services is a powerful demonstration our players are coming together and forming social networks through our experiences.

 



 We drove net bookings growth of more than $600 million above our original guidance for the fiscal year and achieved bottom-line results significantly ahead of our expectations. Our teams continue to deliver for our players despite the challenges of the pandemic, and our execution of long-term strategies to create exceptional high-quality experiences, drive growth through our leading live services and expand our reach to more players are continuing to build strength in our business. As we look forward to FY '22, we are accelerating, powered by organic growth in our existing business, development of new businesses and layering growth from recent acquisitions. We're forecasting growth in FY '22. Our net bookings guidance reflects 18% year-over-year growth to $7.3 billion. This includes organic growth in our core business and the addition of Glu, Codemasters and Metalhead acquisitions. From this position of strength, we are also investing in the future of our business, and we expect to continue to grow underlying profitability. I want to spend time today on three primary growth drivers for us in FY '22, expanding the EA Sports business, growing our Apex Legends and Battlefield franchises and our mobile growth strategy. We have a foundational strategy for growing these blockbuster brands that we are applying here, best-in-class premium experiences, deeply engaging live services that create social networks in our games and expansion of more platforms, new business models and new geographies. The model is how we've got FIFA, Apex Legends, Madden NFL and The Sims into some of the most successful global live service businesses in the industry, and we are applying it as a blueprint across our franchises. As the undisputed leader in sports games, EA Sports is moving from strength to strength as we grow our current business and include more sports and reach new audiences. In FY '21, our EA Sports games brought players together at record levels. Our EA Sports FIFA experiences continue to engage more than 100 million players worldwide. More than 20 million players played FIFA Ultimate Team in the last year, and FIFA Ultimate Team matches were up an incredible 180%. Madden NFL had its biggest year ever, and games across our EA Sports portfolio continue to acquire more players than ever before. We'll now build on that strength with a massive year of innovation and expansion. All of our new EA Sports games in FY '22 are designed for next-gen console platforms including FIFA, Madden, NHL and EA Sports PGA TOUR, our return to golf that is set for Q4 of this year. We're very excited by the opportunity to deliver for baseball fans around the world with the addition of Super Mega Baseball from Metalhead Software and MLB Tap Sports Baseball on mobile. EA Sports is also publishing the highest-rated sports franchise in the world with F1 2021, our first title from our recently completed Codemasters acquisition. And with the combined expertise of the Glu and EA teams focused on engaging more sports fans, we plan to grow our sports mobile business by over 50% this year. We continue to see the consumption of sports move from linear to interactive representing a major growth opportunity for us spanning more sports and more platforms especially mobile. From premium experiences to live services to mobile, EA Sports is in an unparalleled position to achieve more players with new ways to play, watch and connect. With Apex Legends and Battlefield, we have two leading franchises in that category. We are positioned for continued growth in FY '22 through new launches, expansion of mobile and preparing for the addition of new business models that will expand our total addressable audience. Apex Legends is one of the most successful games in the market today. We now have more than 100 million unique players in the game on console and PC, with player engagement growing globally at incredible levels throughout the last year and we are forecasting continued growth. Season 8 saw well over 12 million weekly active users, the highest levels we've seen since Season 1 in 2019. We're also seeing explosive growth for Apex in Asia, especially in Japan, where it has grown significantly in the last three quarters. As Respawn continues to deliver more new content and evolve the main game this year, we are also beginning regional beta testing of Apex Legends Mobile. This is a new experience designed specifically for touchscreens, which we expect to launch worldwide later this fiscal year. Apex Legends continues to have tremendous momentum and is growing in every dimension. We are forecasting close to 20% year-over-year growth to $750 million in net bookings for Apex Legends in FY '22, with significant potential for upside this year and beyond as we launch the mobile game. We are realizing the next phase of growth in our vision for Battlefield with two new experiences launching in FY '22. Three world-class studios, DICE Stockholm, Criterion and DICE LA and our technology team in Gothenburg now form our largest ever Battlefield development team. They are working in lockstep to deliver the definitive next-gen experience for Battlefield fans. The game has everything fans love about Battlefield, epic scale, all-out warfare, unexpected moments and game-changing destruction. And it takes it all to the next level through the power of next-gen consoles and PCs. We're excited to reveal the game to fans next month and share a lot more about the game throughout this summer. We also have a Battlefield game for mobile platforms in development and industrial toys in close partnership with DICE. Built from the ground up for mobile, the game is going into early testing now and we're looking forward to players around the world getting a hand on this innovative Battlefield experience later in FY '22. As I mentioned before, our strategy is to grow Battlefield as we have with our other blockbuster franchises like FIFA and Apex. Best-in-class gameplay, deeply engaging live service, a new mobile experience and more ways to play that we'll introduce to reach more players all over the world. Throughout FY '22, we will continue transforming mobile into a growth center for our business. With the recent reorganization and hiring of new leadership and talent into our EA Mobile teams, we are in a position to maximize our leading mobile live services, including Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes and Sims and Real Racing by growing player acquisition, deepening engagement and player investment and driving new opportunities in non-Western markets. We'll grow in sports model with innovation in our leading franchises, including FIFA, Madden and UFC as well as the addition of MLB Tap Sports Baseball to our mobile sports portfolio. We expect our two biggest shooter franchises to launch on mobile for the first time in FY '22, which is another demonstration of our multi-platform strategy for leading global franchises. With the addition of Glu late into our EA Mobile growth plans, we expect to more than double our Mobile business to $2 billion in annual net bookings within the next three years. We have a year of strong growth ahead in FY '22, and we see many more opportunities as we continue to lead in the expansion and transformation of the industry. We have a very clear long-term growth strategy for our biggest blockbuster franchises. This is the foundation of our business, and you're seeing us grow all major platforms and business models. We're thrilled to have the team from Codemasters, Glu and Metalhead joined the Electronic Arts. And together, we expect to develop many games and experiences that will delight our growing player base and be catalysts for growth in the years to come. We have a deep pipeline of new content, including new franchises and new IP, deeper focus on mobile games and experiences that will lean into user-generated content. We're also continuing to invest in opportunities where we have differentiated ability to reach and engage more players, including our growing subscription service and our esports content and competitions that will expand in scope this year. The three growth drivers that I've focused on today, expanding our EA Sports portfolio, growing our blockbuster shooter franchises and the transformation of our Mobile business provide clear growth and significant upside for Electronic Arts in FY '22 and beyond. We're excited to bring some amazing new games and content to our players and viewers around the world this year. Now I'll turn the call over to Blake.Blake Jorgensen -- Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Andrew. We delivered a big beat this quarter, driven by live services, primarily and extraordinary performance by Apex Legends. GAAP net revenue was $1.35 billion and net bookings of $1.49 billion, which were new records for Q4. Andrew gave you Apex's phenomenal engagement stats. As a result of this engagement, Apex delivered its largest net bookings quarter on record. It also delivered the best day, the best 24-hour period, the best week, the best month and best in-game event. We suggested it would deliver over $1 billion in life-to-date net bookings by the end of the quarter. It actually passed that milestone with half of the quarter to go. Apex Legends delivered over $600 million for the year, well above our original expectations of $300 million to $400 million. Importantly, Apex Legends steadily grew through the year. While Apex surely benefited from a stay-at-home tailwind, the upwards trajectory is driven by the game teams and the content they are delivering. That is the strength -- that is, this strength is structural, to the point Season 8 was the first season built by a new content team we put together in Vancouver, proving our ability to scale resources on our fastest-growing franchise. Our two major shooter franchises, Apex Legends and Battlefield, and our ongoing strength in the Ultimate Team provides a tremendous foundation for growth in FY '22. The addition of Glu and Codemasters accelerates this to 18% revenue growth year on year. I'll go through the details of our guidance in a moment. First though, I thought I'd start with a quick look at what we achieved in fiscal 2021. We closed out the year with $5.63 billion in net revenue. We delivered net bookings of $6.19 billion, the highest in our history and about $640 million above our original expectations. Underlying profit was also an all-time record, as was full-year operating cash flow of $1.93 billion. Of that $6.19 billion in net bookings, $4.6 billion was live services. There couldn't be a more dramatic illustration of the way the business has evolved, with our focus on engagement and ongoing entertainment now generating three-quarters of our net bookings. To give some perspective, that $4.6 billion is equivalent to the sale of around 130 million copies of console games. Digital represents 62% of our full game units sold in fiscal 2021 for consoles, up 13 percentage points from last year. Turning to Q4, specifically. The beat was driven by live services, primarily Apex Legends and FIFA Ultimate Team. Mobile also beat our expectations, driven by outperformance from Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes and SimCity BuildIt. Operating expenses came in slightly above our expectations for the quarter, driven by acquisition-related expenses. Now, turning to guidance. We expect fiscal 2022 GAAP revenue to be $6.8 billion, cost of revenue to be $1.828 billion and earnings per share of $1.34. Remember that this EPS calculation does not factor in future buybacks under our 2-year $2.6 billion share repurchase program. We expect operating cash flows of $1.75 billion and capital expenditures to be around $250 million, which would deliver free cash flow of around $1.5 billion. Cash flow is down year on year, primarily due to tax integration costs associated with the acquisitions. The level of these costs reflect the strength of the IP Glu and Codemasters have developed and bring to EA. capex is up temporarily with office build-outs in Bucharest, Los Angeles, Orlando and the United Kingdom. See our earnings slides and press release for further cash flow information. We expect fiscal 2022 net bookings to be $7.3 billion, up about 18% over fiscal 2021. We expect to continue to drive strong organic growth in Apex Legends in fiscal 2022 and expand the franchise to new platforms with the launch of Apex Mobile in the back half of the year. In sports, we expect FIFA and Madden to be strong and we're launching a new PGA Tour golf game. F1 2021, developed by Codemasters, and which now sits under the EA Sports banner as well, will launch on July 16. And of course, rounding out the year for our shooter franchises is the launch of Battlefield in the holiday season. Because this is the first time we're forecasting Glu and Codemasters, we took a very conservative posture on net bookings from those businesses. In addition, we're not yet modeling any synergies from the two acquisitions. For fiscal 2022, we've assumed simple addition of their existing businesses into EA. Revenue and synergies will come further out as we -- with Glu Mobile expertise to build out a suite of new casual mobile games, leverage our sports know-how with Codemasters' F1 franchise and others, and implement a holistic strategy for racing games. Meanwhile, opex this year will be impacted by some onetime costs associated with the acquisitions. We're also leaning heavily into our biggest franchises, with increased R&D investments and marketing ahead of key launches from Battlefield and Apex Mobile. We expect these near-term investments to pay off in years to come. For the quarter, we now expect GAAP net revenue of $1.475 billion, cost of revenue to be $287 million and operating expenses of $955 million. This results in an earnings per share of $0.24 for the first quarter. We anticipate net bookings for the first quarter to be $1.25 billion. We expect Apex Legends' momentum will carry through to fiscal 2022. We've seen the game already. We believe our financial model of Battlefield may be conservative. And we're looking forward to player reaction when we reveal this game next month. In addition, we're very excited for the franchise as a whole as we add new platforms and business models. We expect strong organic growth this year, growth that is further accelerated by the addition of talented teams at Codemasters and Glu and Metalhead. It is an exciting time for Electronic Arts. Now I'll hand it back to Andrew.Andrew Wilson -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Blake. As we wrap up our remarks here, I want to share our heartfelt congratulations to Respawn Entertainment. The team achieved another amazing milestone last month when they received the gaming industry's first Academy Award for documentary short subject, Colette, which was released within the Medal of Honor: Above and Beyond VR experience. Congratulations to Vince, Dusty, Peter and the entire team. It is a truly outstanding achievement and such an incredible recognition of the creativity and passion for groundbreaking work that all of our teams put into our games. Games will begin -- are bringing joy to more players around the world than ever before, and our experiences are bringing hundreds of millions of players together. Our business has never been stronger. We have clear growth drivers accelerating our trajectory in FY '22, and our acquisitions are new catalysts for growth. As we continue building blockbuster brands with best-in-class live services that reach and connect players on more platforms and in more geographies around the world, we see significant upside for Electronic Arts this year and in the years to come. Thank you to our teams for their incredible work delivering for our clients every day. Now, Blake and I are here for your questions. 