  OperatorGood afternoon. Thank you for attending today's Paycom Software first quarter 2022 quarterly results. My name is Taniya, and I will be your moderator for today's call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to pass the conference over to our host, James Samford, head of investor relations with Paycom. Please go ahead.James Samford -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you. And welcome to Paycom's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. Certain statements made on this call that are not historical facts, including those related to our future plans, objectives and expected performance are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent our outlook only as of the date of this conference call. While we believe any forward-looking statements made on this call are reasonable, actual results may differ materially, because the statements are based on our current expectations and subject to risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in our filings with the SEC, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K. You should refer to and consider these factors when relying on such forward-looking information. Any forward-looking statement made speaks only as of the date on which it is made and we do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.Also, during today's call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, adjusted gross profit, adjusted gross margin and certain adjusted expenses. We use these non-GAAP financial measures to review and assess our performance and for planning purposes. A reconciliation schedule showing GAAP versus non-GAAP results is included in the press release that we issued after the close of the market today and is available on our website at investors.paycom.com. I will now turn the call over to Chad Richison, Paycom's president and chief executive officer. Chad? 

 



Chad Richison -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, James, and thank you to everyone joining our call today. I'll spend a few minutes on the highlights of the quarter. Then I'll focus on the opportunities that I expect to drive strong performance going forward. Following that, Craig will review our financials and our guidance, and then we'll take questions. Our 2022 first quarter revenue of approximately $354 million came in very strong of 30% year over year and was well ahead of the expectations, thanks to strong growth in recurring revenue from new business sales and modestly better revenue from seasonal forms, filings and adjustments. This quarter has set us up really well to strong financial performance for the remainder of the year and we are raising our full year guidance as a result. With our new full year outlook for revenue growth and adjusted EBITDA margin, I now believe we can exceed the Rule of 65. Employee usage continues to trend higher as more companies embrace our self-service solutions and push ownership of the data out to the employee. Increasing employee usage is a key component of the ROI that our clients realize and we believe our employee usage strategy is a competitive advantage and a driver of our very strong growth. Already, well over a quarter of our clients have implemented and/or in the process of implementing Beti, our most advanced employee usage payroll experience to date. In less than a year over 10,000 of our clients have embraced Beti is the right way to do payroll. Beti is fundamentally a better way to run all payroll processes to the benefit of the employer and employee.

 



 We will continue to innovate Beti to deliver even more value to our clients, making it even more compelling. Beti is the future of payroll. Our marketing plan continues to perform very well, delivering strong demo leads and brand recognition across our target market. We are also having a lot of success with our retarget efforts and leveraging our digital assets. We recently launched a new ad campaign highlighting how employees have been given the wrong tools for their jobs. With Paycom, employees have the right HCM tools at their fingertips. Our marketing efforts target employee usage at both large and small clients and we're having great success attracting new clients, which is a key component of our rapid revenue growth. On the sales front, I'm pleased with the execution and progress we are making to further penetrate the markets we are in. I just returned from our President's Club meeting in Florida with our top sales reps and it was fantastic to see how everyone is energized and aligned with our go-to-market strategy. Just a few years ago, we celebrated leading sales reps who sold over $1 million in a year. Today, we are celebrating sales reps exceeding $2 million in sales in a year. Holly Faurot has done an outstanding job aligning the sales organization and the collaboration with the marketing organization is working very well. In fact, both organizations recently received best marketing department and best sales department awards. These awards are in addition to the awards we received for best companies for women and Forbes list of best mid-size employers and top workplaces. I am more confident than ever that we have the right team and culture in place to achieve our growth expectations. As a reminder, we only have approximately 5% of a very large and growing TAM and a long runway for rapid growth for many years to come. Also, I want to say thank you to Jon Evans, who was with Paycom for eight years and was our COO for four of those years, as he took over for Stacey. Jon did a great job for this company, like anyone who does a great job for Paycom, their DNA exists in the company long after they're gone. We are always excited to turn over the department to the next generation of leadership such as Justin Long and we know he'll take this group to the next level as has been proven every time we make strategic moves like this. To sum up, we kicked off the year with a great first quarter and are entering the second quarter with very strong momentum. Our differentiated strategy, our people and the value we are delivering to our clients are fueling our long-term growth. I want to thank our employees for their hard work and exceptional performance this quarter. With that, I'll turn the call over to Craig for a review of our financials and guidance. Craig?Craig Boelte -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks Chad. Before I review our first quarter and our outlook for the second quarter and full year 2022, I would like to remind everyone that my comments related to certain financial measures will be on a non-GAAP basis. First quarter 2022 results were excellent with total revenues of $353.5 million representing growth of 30% over the comparable prior year period. In Q1, we had very strong recurring revenue growth from strong starts and modestly better-than-expected annual forms, filings and adjustments revenue. Our revenue growth continues to be driven by strong demand for easy-to-use employee focused solutions and our success in attracting new business wins. Within total revenues, recurring revenue was $348.2 million for the first quarter representing 98% of total revenues for the quarter and growing 30% from the comparable prior year period. Total adjusted gross profit for the first quarter was $306 million representing an adjusted gross margin of 86.6% and we remain on target to achieve strong full-year adjusted gross margin in the range of 85% to 86%. Adjusted sales and marketing expense for the first quarter of 2022 was $72.1 million or 20.4% of revenues compared to 21.8% of revenues in the prior year period. We continue to see strong return on investment from our advertising spend and plan to continue to invest aggressively in marketing and advertising throughout 2022. Adjusted R&D expense was $29.4 million in the first quarter of 2022 or 8.3% of total revenues. Adjusted total R&D cost, including the capitalized portion were $42.9 million in the first quarter compared to $34 million in the prior year period. Innovation continues to be a key area of investment for us and we have a deep pipeline of projects that we are pursuing. Adjusted EBITDA was $170.1 million in the first quarter of 2022 or 48.1% of total revenues compared to $133 million in the prior year or 48.9% of total revenues. Our GAAP net income for the first quarter was $91.9 million or a $1.58 per diluted share versus $64.6 million or a $1.11 per diluted share in the prior year period based on approximately 58 million shares. Non-GAAP net income for the first quarter of 2022 was $110.6 million or $1.90 per diluted share $85.9 million or a $1.47 per diluted share in the prior year period. For 2022, we anticipate our full-year effective income tax rate to be approximately 28% on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. Turning to the balance sheet, we ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of approximately $361 million in total debt of $29 million. The average daily balance of funds held on behalf of clients was approximately $2.2 billion in the first quarter of 2022. Now, let me turn to guidance. Based on the very strong first quarter results and the strong demand trends we are seeing, we are raising our full-year 2022 guidance. We now expect revenue in the range of $1.333 billion to $1.335 billion or 26% year-over-year growth at the midpoint of the range. We expect adjusted EBITDA in the range of $533 million to $535 million representing adjusted EBITDA margin of 40% at the midpoint of the range. Combined revenue growth and adjusted EBITDA margin, we now expect to exceed the Rule of 65 that we reported last year. For the second quarter of 2022, we expect total revenues in the range of $308 million to $310 million representing a growth rate over the comparable prior period of approximately 28% at the midpoint of the range. We expect adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter in the range of $111 million to $113 million representing an adjusted EBITDA margin of 36% at the midpoint of the range. The strength of our results and our raise guidance clearly reflect our confidence in the market demand for our solutions and the success we are having in expanding our market share from the roughly 5% share of the TAM that we have today. We have a high margin recurring revenue model, a strong balance sheet, and with the investments we are making and the success of our sales model, we are very well positioned to deliver another year of rapid revenue growth and robust adjusted EBITDA margin. With that we will open the line for questions. Operator? 