
OperatorGood day and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Bennett Murphy, Head of Investor Relations.Please go ahead sir.Bennett Murphy -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you. Good morning, and thank you all for joining us for this conference call to discuss AmerisourceBergen's fiscal 2021 second quarter results. I am Bennett Murphy, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Joining me today are Steve Collis, Chairman, President and CEO and Jim Clearly Executive, Vice President and CFO. On today's call, we will discussing non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these measures to GAAP are provided in today's press release and are also available on our website at investor.amerisourcebergen.com. We have also posted a slide presentation to accompany today's press release on our investor website.During this conference call, we will make forward-looking statements about our business and financial expectations on an adjusted non-GAAP basis including, but not limited to EPS, operating income and income taxes. Forward looking statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change. For a discussion of [Indecipherable] and assumptions we refer you to today's press release and our SEC filings, including our most recent Form 10-K. AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the express permission of the company. [Indecipherable] we ask that you limit your questions to one per participant in order for us to get to as many participants as possible within the hour.With that, I'll turn the call over to Steve.Steven H. Collis -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you Ben, and good morning to everyone joining us today. It's hard to believe that one year ago on this call, I really sort of [Indecipherable] AmerisourceBergen was responding to the global COVID-19 pandemic. There were many uncertainties how COVID 19 will impact our lives, our families and our communities. Thought about purpose of being united in our responsibility to create healthier futures AmerisourceBergen acted decisively to protect and support our associates maintain business continuity and help our customers navigate increase complexity. Our people and businesses proved resilience and the equal distribution industry demonstrated its vital role as a key pillar healthcare system. I remain incredibly proud and how adapted and innovated to support our farmers be and facilitate patient access powered by and culture enables infrastructure and technology AmerisourceBergen is providing value-added data driven solutions to empower our partners with channel awareness and solutions importantly every channel capability enables us to continue to support on innovation and response, both in the US and increasingly, a role that's how is important for our people community and our highlights and by service, while creating value for all our stakeholders. Turning now to our quarterly financial results.As we announced earlier this AmerisourceBergen delivered year-over-year growth for the second quarter of fiscal 2021, revenues were $49 billion, representing growth of 4% from the same period last year and adjusted EPS grew 5% year-over-year. These results were driven by strong customer relationships, leadership in specialty in May of services and solutions and our purpose driven culture [Indecipherable] in our responsibility to create healthier futures. [Indecipherable] COVID-19 support growth. In the US, we continue to distribute behind viral and antibody therapies is health systems across the country.Through our work with the Strategic National Stockpile we are supporting government preparedness for current and future potential pharmaceutical needs members of our [Indecipherable] in their communities as we facilitate their participation in the federal retail pharmacy program. The efforts are especially important in the nationwide inoculation movement because they allow as highly trusted medical professionals into communities enables them to quickly efficiently and served out of our reach priority populations. Outside the United States we continue [Indecipherable] in Canada, for example, business is working partnership with FedEx to distribute the COVID-19 back on behalf of the Canadian government.As I mentioned earlier AmerisourceBergen is focused on providing value-added services and [Indecipherable] customer-centric solutions and that's should only be amplified throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. Our associates are facilitating an efficient and resilient of launching to ensure patients have access to the critical medications [Indecipherable] pharmaceutical innovation, we are providing key commercialization and distribution solutions for our partners to help and adapt to the current dynamic environment we are leveraging our leadership in specialty distribution and services to further enhance our differentiated value proposition for our apartments. This includes expanding our robust suite of capability and data and [Indecipherable]solutions to service the our position as a partner of choice and supporting pharmaceutical innovation and access.

 



Just this prior week, we are able to leverage the full breadth [Indecipherable] and efficient execution to be a solution provider for having and private partners. Working with the US government our manufacturer partner, we are able to facilitate the transportation of anti-vital therapies to India. I am most [Indecipherable] and humbled that we were able to [Indecipherable] in this time of need around the world. [Indecipherable] business a key global [Indecipherable] continues to support innovation and manufacturers and going logistical important world his expertise and definitely turnaround and I the posture as our partnership is to perform more clinical trial products through our industry leading patient capabilities given challenges facing the patients and traditional think wholesale well period I'm parallel logistical services combined with partnerships and a flow-based services and proven invaluable in clinical trials.Moving forward our teams have been adaptable created and that provide solutions sort of better outcomes. The community and patients partners our MWI Animal Health business also continued strong performance this quarter. Thanks to strong manufacturer and provider relations as well as its ability to facilitate health for both companion and production animals to support the continued growth of the game that we are business and further, operational efficiency we recently our second new state-of-art and what distribution is going to be this triggered certainly most of the animal health distribution network and enhances our service space.But these will be in area and Animal Health revised baseline AmerisourceBergen's continued ability to provide differentiated value to our customers and markets and deliver on our is of being united in our responsibility to create healthier futures is it the hands possibility execute on our core growth strategies first, we remain focused on our customers all the three channels with our portfolio of key anchor customers across each segment of our business. This customer base enabled us to lead with market leaders and facilitate patient experience wherever a prescription is needed. We in page continue to strengthen our fleet correlations and hard-centric solutions globally.Second, we will continue to go the holiday concessions we have the strongest portfolio of customer relationships and added services in the industry. Which enabled us to expand our pharmaceutical innovation expanding our capabilities in specialty to support about I partners and downstream customers make important area of focus Marisol we continue to focus on delivering paid into our service and developing innovative approaches to best service our customers by embracing technology data and analytics, we provide solution-oriented value added innovations all our customers to grow this time strategies because we have customers for all we brought oil.We see today, you can prescription pharmacy for outcomes globally Officer market access and supporting pharmaceutical innovation providing better services that facilitate commercialization as well as enterprise solutions to the sort of a patient access on top of our unparalleled scale against the teams I will give therapies, both small and large patient populations. This approach enables sponsorships and I'm potential new so since remain key conferences and our focus, I know there is equity and increase as well as investments in our people and culture have long been pivotal in advancing these growth strategies and position AmerisourceBergen for long-term success.Our strategy and culture foundational to reinforcing our legacy of strong corporate stewardship. Refinances on bridge people and ensuring the continued financial health. Our businesses by creating long-term value for all our stakeholders to ensure that the value we create sustainable we are [Indecipherable] our overall growth strategy. Our environmental strategy focuses on adapting to changing block advancing our resilient and responsible supply chain we are the energy, our infrastructure and technology to create an efficient and secure pharmaceutical supply chain it also allows us to reduce waste our carbon footprint and prepare for [Indecipherable] events. For example we have the customers seek creative packaging and transportation efficiencies that result in significant process, costs and the environmental improvements.We also are understand our climate related physical risks and have [Indecipherable] to ensure we can continue to deliver lifesaving medications. On the social saw our strategy is centered around corporate responsibility and focused on [Indecipherable] in our people and communities, inspire team members and also helping communities. We continue [Indecipherable] as we have throughout the pandemic to ensure we [Indecipherable] our associates families additional bonuses [Indecipherable] resources and benefit benefits as part of our strong benefit been programs now including extended paid or Italy second line associates.We have additional important measures such as enhanced cleaning protocols. So it was patients and providing PPE the long-term we have on our talent and culture. I'm based in the development of our people. Finding investments in of the model and programs supported by low learning technology I don't think about this environment. For example, this is obvious operating laws there is an increase of growth rates. The encouraging probably the operation should create and you all the it's and executing to prepare for the future with creative results on us. And the action base to rapidly adapt I'm having landscape throughout all our services of their compensation we empower them to reach back to renewables.We have also launched a new enterprise sales model offers a modern and clearly experience Page also consistent to what we expect and development. Our dealers well, I mean our people strategy with our business strategy we create. But as you've now and for the long term. Another way we spotted team members the Supervisory diversity equity and ensuring that voices and perspectives. We and I remain purpose of instruments, how will face Belgium and we encourage our associates to participating in Employee Resource Groups in the past 12 months, we have introduced and participation BRG's is from 8% so I mean, the impact we have and strengthen our focus on the part of it is diversity, but it's an collaborative data driven and but approach to ensure that there is all our supplier partners and a lot of this function of GSV efforts and this Marisol empowers our associates to participate in deep conversations that help shape the future the for example, our associates of cash and on social injustice and AmerisourceBergen Foundation an elevated the impact our managing the nation Tier 1 ratio, focused on the others to be inclusion and developments I am proud of the donation and these days in the first.We believe but in quality is a fundamental and that it is important to support social injustice Health equity has also be raised over the past year as one of the social issues facing and here I want to highlight that are our Pharmacy Elevate Provider Network on doing healthy communities as has been helping providers well establish relationships make communities about equity on a daily basis. They have major role ensuring positive outcomes incredible work bonds of the national COVID 19 banks major to reach all parts of the country and efficiency and that was also the foundation recently made is a base subordinating build a to support 90 bags education and awareness and average remove barriers to bottled healthcare experience, improve the health of our communities. We are grateful and proud. We have the opportunity support healthy communities.The US I think we're independent pharmacies finally, regarding an element of our EFC strategy is embracing our culture all transparency ethics and integrity which informed a different thing that we do and which ensures the highest standards of governance our commitment to do the right thing. It's called in resource expenses and principles by balancing environmental social and governance initiatives AmerisourceBergen to Greg I'll give futures around the world. This is not only the right thing to do. It was enabled us to further enhance the value we create all of Amerisource Bergen stakeholders in closing, we remain confident in how ability to provide differentiated value to our leverage our leadership in specialty distribution lot of our innovative market and benefit from our focus on strong corporate citizenship. Looking ahead, we have strong confidence in our business.Our focus on closing the acquisition of the long, which will expand our distribution capabilities into key markets and further strengthen our global variable manufacturing services we look forward to building upon our strong tenant base, the onboarding of the line healthy there. Fantastic. Management team and we are excited to begin the next evolution of enhancing our ability to provide innovative and global health institutions we are well positioned to create long-term stakeholder value and remain united in our responsibility to create healthier futuresNow I will turn the all other Jim for a more in-depth review of our results. Jim?James F. Cleary -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks Steve and good morning everyone. And Steve mentioned [Indecipherable] over a year has passed since [Indecipherable] the COVID-19 pandemic and AmerisourceBergen's response reflecting on the past year I have been moved by the diligence our teams have shown is supporting our partners during these complex times. Our associates have moved our purpose being united in our responsibility to create healthier futures and they are the foundation performance I am appreciative of the hard work of our associates over the past year and I am proud AmerisourceBergen continues to focus on cultivating advancing our talent and culture. While the pandemic presented a new challenges on long-term commitment to investing in our businesses allowed us to successfully manage through [Indecipherable] and demonstrate the strength and resilience of our business model.As I said on the call this time last year we have been able to leverage significantly internal resources and capabilities to meet the evolving needs of our up spring and downstream partners as we sit here today with our eyes on the future, AmerisourceBergen is continuing to invest internally in our businesses and talent to ensure that AmerisourceBergen is not only delivering strong results this fiscal year, but will continue to do so over the long term for the differentiated value from our innovative services and solutions.Turning now to discuss our second quarter results, I will review our adjusted quarterly consolidated results, our segment performance and the updated elements of our fiscal 2021 guidance including the increased storage EPS guidance. I will note that is financial guidance does not include any contribution from the proposed alliance healthcare acquisition announced in January 2021. My remarks today will focus on our adjusted non-GAAP financial results unless otherwise stated for the and comparisons are made against the prior year March quarter.For a detailed discussion of our GAAP results, please refer to our earnings release. We finished the quarter with adjusted [Indecipherable] EPS $2.53 an increase of 5% primarily due to solid operating income growth across our businesses to reflect our continued strong performance, we are raising the bottom end of our full fiscal year EPS bringing it to a range of $8.45% to $8.60 up from a range of $8.40 to $8.60. Our consolidated revenue was $49.2 billion, up 4% 4% driven by revenue growth in both the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment and other which includes our Global commercialization services and animal health group of businesses.Consolidated gross profit increased 7% to one 1.5 billion by increases in gross profit in each operating segment. In this quarter, gross profit margin increased 9 basis points from the prior year quarter. This gross margin improvement is due to continued growth and [Indecipherable] buyers including COVID-19 therapies and growth in some of our higher margin businesses such as World Courier and MWI Animal Health. Regarding consolidated operating expenses, operating expenses from 8% year-over-year due to a number of payroll related costs to operate in the current environment and investments in internal initiatives being made throughout fiscal 2021 with a focus on continuing to differentiate our value proposition for future growth.We are narrowing our operating expense guidance for the year from growth in the mid to high single-digit range to growth in the high single digits. As a reminder, last year in the second half of fiscal 2020 benefited from an opex tailwind from lower corporate administrative costs, notably lower travel and lower healthcare expenses. Turning now to consolidated operating income, our operating income was $707 million 5% compared to the prior year quarter. This increase was driven by increased gross profit in both the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment and our Global Commercialization and animal health businesses, which I will discuss in more detail when I review segment level performance.Operating income margins grew 2 basis points to 1.44% as a result of the continued strong performance by our higher margin businesses. Net interest expense was $35 million, roughly flat year-over-year. During the quarter we issued $2.5 billion of new debt [Indecipherable] closing the Alliance Healthcare acquisition and new debt is comprised of approximately $1.5 billion of senior notes due in 2023 which has a coupon of 0.737% and $1 billion of senior notes due in 23/1, which have a coupon of 2.7%.So, we do not [Indecipherable] interest expense. I will note that due to the interest and fees associated with the debt raise net interest expense will likely be up roughly 15% for the full fiscal year. Our updated fiscal 2021 adjusted EPS guidance includes this incremental interest expense but does not include Alliance Healthcare operating income, which of course would be included in our future consolidated P&L after the transaction closes. Moving now to our effective income tax rate second quarter, our tax rate was 21.9% up from 21.5% in the second quarter as of 2020.Our diluted share count was 207.3 million shares, roughly flat compared to last year's share count. We now expect our average share count for the fiscal year to be approximately 207 million to 200. 8 million shares up from approximately 207 million shares. The revised guidance range will adversely impact of dilution from stock comp and does not require [Indecipherable] share count impact of the 2 million shares that we will deliver at the close of the Alliance Healthcare transaction.As you begin to revisit your model, I will remind you that when we announced to be an Alliance acquisition we noted that we would immediately get period of deleveraging following the transaction close, accordingly and through share repurchases we are committed to paying down over $2 billion in total debt over the next few years to ensure AmerisourceBergen maintain its strong investment grade credit ratings. Turning now to adjusted free cash flow, our adjusted free cash flow year-to-date was $298 million keeping us on track with our adjusted free cash flow guidance of approximately $1.5 billion for the fiscal year.Regarding our cash balance, we ended the quarter with $6.6 billion in cash, including approximately 2.5 billion of proceeds from the issuance of the senior notes that I just discussed. This completes the review of our consolidated results. Now, we'll turn to our segment results. First, regarding the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segments it's important to keep in context the environments last year in the month of March. Last year, we experienced increased pharmaceutical demand as many of our customers increased their repurchases at the onset of COVID-19 resulting in higher revenue and gross profit, consolidated levels of sales, in the prior-year period does have an impact on year-over-year growth rate comparisons for the quarter.This year, Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment revenue was $47.1 billion, up 3% for the quarter driven by increased sales of specialty products including COVID-19 therapies. The growth rate may have been negatively impacted by being 2 less business days in the current year March quarter compared to the prior year period. Segment operating income increased about 5% to $589 million with operating income margin, up 1 basis point to 1.25% with our continued solid performance related to sales from specialty products, including COVID-19 therapies and for our ION Solutions business which continues to be a differentiator.As a reminder, the cash debt reserve that we reversed in the fourth quarter in fiscal 2020 was originally recorded in the second quarter. The reserve and subsequent reversal both happened in fiscal 2020, therefore resulting in a tailwind to the current quarter operating income growth and will be a headwind on operating income growth in the fourth quarter, but will have no impact when comparing to full fiscal 2021 with fiscal 2020. Now I will turn to other which includes businesses that focus on Global Commercialization Services and Animal Health including [Indecipherable] AmerisourceBergen Consulting and MWI. In the quarter, total revenue was $2.1 billion up 12% driven by growth across the three operating segments, particularly for World Courier.Operating income for the group was up 14% to $123 million primarily due to the continued growth in performance of World Courier and MWI carriers to in-patient capabilities differentiated business and has gained meaningful traction in the market as clinical trials have begun utilizing the whole study additionally, our traditional commercial offerings and industry expertise and voluntary or continue to be by many partners resulting in higher volume and weights and the global logistics continue to be complex endeavor maintained its strong growth trajectory.Particularly in the companion animal market pet ownership has been on the rise for paying closer attention to their our investments across our businesses, including a new and a lot distribution center and then analytics technologies have allowed us to remain in class provider and offer innovative services and solutions to our partners as a result of exceptional performance in strong business fundamentals in Other we are raising our operating income guidance for the group for mid to high single-digit growth to low double-digit growth for the fiscal year. I will note that this new guidance range of low double-digit growth [Indecipherable] two year compound annual growth rate and the high single digits. Helped by the continued performance of World Courier and MWI. Turning now to touch on the third quarter to provide some color and reminders if you look at your models.Given the continued strong performance across our business and the favorable comparison to last year, we expect revenue and gross profit to be strong and the operating expense growth rate to remain elevated, below the operating income line we expect EPS to be only up slightly in the third quarter due to three main factors, first higher tax rate year-over-year as we lap discrete items and the third quarter of fiscal 2020, second higher interest expense due to the debt raise and third, higher share counts.The share repurchases on hold is the result of the Alliance Health transaction yet. We expect share count to continue to move up to the stock comp. At this point, the year we are happy to have been able to raise our EPS guidance and debt driven by the strong performance we are seeing across our business the new EPS range represents growth of 7% to 9% versus 20 and clearly driven by a strong operating income growth expected in both the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment and our Global Commercialization Services and Animal Health per conclude my prepared remarks this morning. I will provide a brief update on the Alliance Healthcare transaction. We continue to make progress toward closing the transaction and continue to have valuable discussions and the leadership and teams Alliance in preparation for closing we remain on track to. So the acquisition by the end of our fiscal year with the possibility closing based on third quarter as a reminder, we expect the acquisition to generate high teens percent increasing to GPS and the first 12 months post close this acquisition as an important strategic and financial into the future as it will enhance our scale and margin profile. Free cash flow generation and build on our global pharmaceutical manufacturing services and distribution capabilities.Another is well positioned to create long-term value. Our commercial partners, our key differentiators, a strong customer relationships. Leadership in specialty and our commitment to innovation we are also continuing to build our corporate this initiatives to ensure that value create benefits. All of our stakeholders. Executive those sponsor of RV industry and started by this quarter's release Annual Global Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Report, which Alliance when sustainability frameworks including to start see GI and in UN's Sustainable Development Goals for the first time several Epicel in the mines Tcfe and World Economic Forum frameworks and is present and our own sustainability microsite as a member of the these standards advisory AmerisourceBergen's meaning yes Chief reporting this feature and the case study our recent workshop I encourage everyone to visit the monetary side and continuing to provide updates on our CSG I would for next and by take a moment an important reason acknowledgment the CEO seat covers and AmerisourceBergen receipts and Gabriel P anti-destination LDL presented at the American in some award to Steve and AmerisourceBergen our commitment to finding a and the world. Based on where we are is installing recognition of and AmerisourceBergen living any closing AmerisourceBergen remains a message.Our business I sort of give and will continue in same our businesses people and communities to serve all our stakeholders. We are building our explains enhancing our differentiation in the marketplace and positioning our business for long-term growth. The value creation driven by our purpose of the united in our responsibility to create healthier futures.Thank you for your interest in AmerisourceBergen, now we'll return the call over to the operator to start our Q&A. Operator?