  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. My name is John. I'll be your conference coordinator today. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. and I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Steve Winoker, vice president of investor relations. Please proceed.Steve Winoker -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thanks, John. Good morning, all. And apologies for the delay due to technical reasons. We had to switch to a backup line. It was choppy for a lot of investors, and we wanted to make sure everyone could hear. I am joined today for our first-quarter 2021 earnings call by our chairman and CEO, Larry Culp, and CFO, Carolina Dybeck Happe. Before we start, I'd like to remind you that the press release and presentation are available on our website. Note that some of the statements we're making are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.As described in our SEC filings and on our website, those elements can change as the world changes. With that, I'll hand the call over to Larry. Larry Culp -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Steve, thanks, and good morning, all. Despite continued challenges in aviation and a still difficult comparison to last year, the first quarter marked a solid start to 2021. I'm confident this sets us up well to deliver on our '21 commitments, and profitable growth for the long term. Looking at the first-quarter numbers on slide two. Orders were down 8% organically, primarily driven by aviation services and power equipment. It was partially offset by continued strength in healthcare and renewables, as well as growth in power services. We're seeing better performance in our shorter-cycle service businesses. Ex aviation, service orders were up 6% organically in the quarter. Our backlog stands at $833 billion, and remains a strength with approximately 80% geared toward services where we have higher margins. Industrial revenue was down 10% organically. Services continued to be a main focus as they were down 14%. While services may fluctuate quarter to quarter, especially as we've seen during the pandemic, we still expect growth in services this year. Ex aviation, industrial revenue was up 1% organically. Adjusted industrial margin was 5.1%, up 110 basis points organically. Notably, we saw organic expansion year over year, with three of our four businesses improving as our cost actions 2020 continue to take hold. Adjusted EPS was $0.03, with the majority of businesses improving, offsetting aviation.

 



 Carolina will provide more color shortly. Industrial free cash flow was a negative $845 million. Encouragingly, this was up $1.7 billion ex biopharma, driven by better earnings and working capital. All in all, we're seeing continued progress, especially on margins and cash flow, and we believe these improvements are sustainable. As we look to the second quarter, we expect industrial free cash flow growth of similar magnitude to what we saw this quarter. And despite ongoing volatility, as the world fights through the pandemic, the guidance we provided a month ago remains unchanged. Turning to slide three. There's a lot we're doing day in and day out to build momentum across GE. During the last month, we agreed to combine GECAS with AerCap, marking a significant catalyst in our journey to focus GE on its core four industrial businesses: power, renewable energy, aviation, healthcare. And each business is critical to the global markets they serve. This transaction enables us to further strengthen the company for the long term, in closing, bringing our total debt reduction to more than $70 billion over the last three years, while drastically simplifying GE in a number of ways, including our financial reporting. All the while, we've been fortifying GE's foundation, this starts first with our resilient and passionate team. They have been instrumental in driving our lean transformation forward, and I'm grateful for their service. As we scale lean across the company, we're working to deliver safety, quality, delivery and cost improvements, as well as high-quality growth. One recent example comes from digital services and renewables. We heard from our customers that our "cycle times" and responsiveness needed improvement. A lean Kaizen event revealed multiple systems and inconsistent processes in the way. Through value stream mapping, we developed standard work to decrease cycle time by 70%, enabling us to bid for and win more business. This has already led to more than $70 million of backlog growth. Opportunities like these for high-impact deployment of lean abound throughout our company. We're coupling lean with a significant decentralization effort. This means managing not just the four segments we report, but the nearly 30 businesses underneath them, where the work -- GE has done. This combination of lean and decentralization is maximizing value for our customers while increasing accountability at the business level. And even though it's still early in our journey, we're seeing tangible operational and financial results. For example, at a recent operating review with power conversion, I was thrilled to see how the team's strategy has come together, optimizing their operations through lean and redefining their market focus. This has led to double-digit order growth in the quarter and three consecutive quarters of organic margin expansion. This stronger foundation sets us up to spend more time playing offense. Our first priority is investment to drive organic growth efforts. We're improving our team's abilities to market, sell and service the products we have today. And at the same time, we're strengthening our offerings with new product introductions. As you may have seen recently, we've had some major wins across the portfolio. In renewables, we were selected to supply more than 530 turbines to North Central wind energy facilities in Oklahoma, marking the largest onshore wind project in GE's history. At aviation, CFM secured LEAP engine and service agreements from Southwest Airlines and Scandinavian Airlines to power 100 MAX and 35 A320neo aircraft. Meanwhile, at healthcare, we've launched new ultrasound solutions, the Vscan and Venue, the industry's first AI offering for cardiac imaging. These innovations are supporting clinicians who need fast, reliable insights at the point of care now more than ever. And while we're continuing to invest in technology and innovation to serve our customers and to lead our markets into the future, fortifying our competitive position globally is of paramount importance. Over time, we will look to augment our organic efforts with inorganic investments that accelerate the implementation of our strategy and create real value for customers and investors alike. So as we think about what we're playing for, it is the long term, building a world that works. At GE, our technology and expertise across critical markets enable us to lead along with our customers in creating a more sustainable future. Our renewables and power businesses sit at the heart of the energy transition. Our opportunities were on full display last week during Earth Week. In renewables, we've held the No. 1 position in North America onshore wind two years running, and this is the fastest-growing source of new power generation capacity. At gas power, we're playing a vital complementary role in decarbonizing at scale as customers shift from coal to gas. And as we modernize the power grid with digital and automation solutions, we have an opportunity to have an even bigger impact. In healthcare, we're at the forefront of the precision health revolution. We have a leading position in many imaging modalities, and we're growing our digital and AI capabilities, which will enhance the personalization of diagnostics and therapeutics. Take an area like cancer screening, our solutions are improving patient outcomes, helping clinicians rule out false positives and streamlining workflows for providers and payers alike. And as we look to the future of flight, no business is better positioned than our aviation business. In the near term, our focus is getting people back into the air safely. And as the market recovers from COVID, we're well placed with the largest and youngest engine platform, with more than 37,000 commercial engines and more than 60% of our fleet that has not yet had a second shop visit. Underscoring the value of our platform will generate for decades to come. As we tackle the world's most complex challenges, we're also passionate about delivering for our customers across our vast global installed base. It's our services that keep us close to our customers day in and day out and create a significant source of recurring revenue. By staying true to our purpose and our customers, we'll unlock further upside potential in growth, profit and cash generation, leading to high single-digit free cash flow margins over the next few years. Stepping back, we're on a positive trajectory in 2021 and beyond. We're focused on delivering on our commitments, and I'm confident that our continued efforts will build a stronger and more focused GE. With that, Carolina will provide further insights on the quarter.Carolina Dybeck Happe -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Larry. As you mentioned, our decentralization effort continues. And our financing is playing a critical role. We're developing and supporting a more granular operating view of our nearly 30 P&Ls and we're building lean skills to ensure the processes we're setting up are truly lean and automated. We're also deepening our focus on cash and strengthening our operational muscles. We're especially seeing this with billings and collections. And we're really driving services growth, a key component to unlocking improved profitability. For example, as we execute contracts, we're more focused on cost productivity and standard work. I'm confident this improved discipline will translate into improved results. Turning to slide four. Before we dive into the results, two items: First, with the announcement of AerCap and GECAS combination, GECAS has moved to discontinued operations. As a result, we booked a day one loss on sale on our financials have been recast to reflect this transfer, with depreciations sitting on the portfolio. Going forward, any changes to earnings associated with GECAS in disc ops will primarily be driven by the AerCap stock price. Second, we're planning to transition our quarterly backlog disclosures to our remaining performance obligation basis, or RPO, starting in the second quarter. This change will simplify and streamline our reporting, further aligning our key metrics to those commonly used across our sectors and reducing unnecessary extra work. Now, let me provide some color on the quarter on an organic basis. Looking at the top line. Recall that our businesses only partially felt the impact of the pandemic in the first quarter of '20. Aviation continues to be challenged, managing through market volatility, which has weighed on our overall performance. Industrial revenue was down 10% this quarter, largely driven by services. However, ex aviation, revenue was up 1%. We're focusing on improved services growth across the portfolio. Health care equipment and services continue to be a strength. We saw increased demand as global procedure volumes recovered to pre-pandemic levels. While power declined and renewables was roughly flat, these were largely driven by our increased focus on profitable growth. Examples include reducing turnkey scope in gas power, exiting new coal in power portfolio and increasing project selectivity in renewables. Next, industrial margins expanded 110 basis points, with power, renewables and healthcare all contributing. Ex aviation, margins expanded 450 basis points. A couple of standouts. One, gas power services with double-digit revenue growth and significant margin expansion, and this was supported by better performance in our transactional and CSA portfolios. And two, healthcare margin expansion. This was driven by better volume and cost productivity due to our lean efforts and expense management. We also continue to see sustainable benefits from our cost actions, including reduced headcount of roughly 23,000 year over year. We are on track to realize the incremental $1 billion of benefits in 2021. Finally, adjusted EPS was $0.03 in the quarter. This reflects $0.04 of improvement year over year, ex biopharma, driven in roughly equal parts by industrial and capital performance. As we work from continuing to adjusted EPS, we need to exclude the positive Baker mark, as well as the negative impact of significant higher cost restructuring programs and nonoperating expenses, primarily pension. Overall, we're encouraged by our industrial margin improvement. Moving to cash. Industrial free cash flow was negative 845 million, the use of cash and a decline from the fourth quarter, which we expect seasonally, consistent with what we shared earlier in the quarter. However, we saw significant progress across a number of our businesses with cash flow up 1.4 billion year over year, and ex biopharma, up 1.7 billion, driven by earnings and working capital improvement. Looking at earnings, they were down year over year on a reported basis. However, as I mentioned earlier, earnings were up, excluding the impact of biopharma and Baker, with adjusted industrial organic profit up 18%. Moving to working capital. This was a use of 900 million this quarter. We're seeing progress across the board, with payables and inventories contributing the most of the improvement. Looking at the flows within the quarter. Receivables were sourced from higher seasonal collections and daily management, while we also reduced short-term factoring, which negatively impacted our free cash flow by 800 million. Our focus on stronger billings and collections continued, with two days of DSO improvement. For example, in aviation services, within our CSA portfolio, we're using value stream mapping and daily management and have improved billing timeliness by 15%. Inventory was a use of cash of 700 million. This was largely driven by Renewables, as expected, to support second half volume. Inventory remains a key focus area for all leaders. Take our healthcare business, where we're improving by half a turn year over year. When I recently visited our team in Life Care Solutions, they showed me how their Hoshin Kanri project reduced inventory by more than 5% already this quarter while delivering cost savings. We're continuously sharing these learnings across GE to inspire and accelerate further improvements. Payables was a use of 400 million. We saw seasonally lower volume in power and aviation. There was significant improvement year over year. Progress was also a use of 400 million as deliveries outpaced collections. Concrete assets was flat as deliveries offset collections. So working capital, without the 800 million impact of the factoring reduction, would have been close to flat this quarter. And year over year, working capital flow was 1.6 billion better. Overall, a significant improvement. We're carefully optimizing our capital investments to drive long-term growth. Capex spend was up 18% sequentially, yet down 37% year over year. We've increased rigor in our investments by focusing on high-return and strategically differentiated technologies, including the Haliade-X in renewables and PDx capacity expansion in healthcare. In all, our efforts to improve working capital are taking hold and with additional opportunities near term. Over time, sustainable free cash flow generation will mainly come from profitable organic growth, combined with higher margins and longer-term efficient capital deployment. Turning to liquidity and leverage on slide six. We've continued to solidify our financial position. This quarter, we reduced debt by approximately 4 billion. Our liquidity is strong, and we have ample additional liquidity sources for future deleveraging actions. This includes proceeds from the GECAS transaction, positive cash flow and monetizing our remaining stakes in Baker and AerCap. Post transaction close, we expect to reduce debt significantly, bringing our total reduction to more than 70 billion since the end of 2018. Additionally, we do not anticipate any further funding requirement for the GE pension plan in the foreseeable future. And by that, I mean the end of the decade. This is due to our 2.5 billion pre-funding in 2020, our investment portfolio performance, as well as the recently enacted American Rescue Plan Act. Since the beginning of 2019, we reduced our factoring balance by 8 billion, bringing it down to about 6 billion at quarter end. Effective April 1, we discontinued the majority of our factoring programs. As I talked about our outlook, we'll exclude the related cash flow impact going forward, which we expect to be between 3.5 and 4 billion. The majority of this will be felt in the second quarter. Combining this with 3.5 to 4 billion with the 800 million reported cash impact in the first quarter from the normal course activity, gets you to the 4 to 5 billion range of cash that we described last month. If you apply the same logic and cancel out the factoring effect from our discontinued programs in 2020, after rebaselining for biopharma and COVID-related volume in healthcare, you get to rebaseline free cash flow of about positive 2.4 billion in 2020. Our 2021 reported free cash flow range of 2.5 to 4.5 billion includes the impact of a negative 800 million factoring in the first quarter. Excluding the full-year impact from factoring, the majority of our cash flow improvement in 2021 comes from earnings. As we reduce our reliance on factoring, we will continue to focus with further improvement on our core billings and collections capabilities, leading to better cash performance over time. And there is no change to our view from outlook, where the improvement is driven by our underlying operating performance. Due to us reducing factoring, as well as better managing working capital and cash, our quarterly cash needs have decreased more than 4 billion in a year, a significant improvement. In all, we expect to achieve net debt-to-EBITDA of less than 2.5 times over the next few years and maintain a strong investment-grade rating. Moving to our business results, which I'll speak to on an organic basis. First, on power. Our gas power and power portfolio continue to make progress. We're especially encouraged by the growth in gas power services. Overall, power remains on track to deliver their financial commitments for the year. Looking at the market, global electricity demand grew 3% this quarter, driving GE gas turbine utilization and CSA billings up high single digits. Orders declined 12% in the quarter. At gas power, equipment orders were down 50%, driven by the non-repeat of a large turnkey order. However, we booked 18 turbines, up nine. And notably, service orders were up 11% with contractual and transactional growth. This was driven by higher outages and stronger commercial performance compared to the pandemic-related disruptions last year. At power portfolio, orders were down 16% as we expected, driven by our planned exit of the new build coal business at steam. This was partially offset by double-digit growth at power conversion. Backlog of 78 billion decreased year over year, largely driven by timing of equipment orders and contractual service commitments. Gas power accounts for roughly 80% of this backlog. Revenue was down. Gas power was down 2%. This was driven by equipment, down 25%. We had significantly lower turnkey scope project, as anticipated, while at the same time, we shipped more heavy-duty gas turbines this quarter, up six. And we commissioned 3.6 gigawatts of power to the grid, including three HA units. As you heard from Scott's outlook, we've been more selective on turnkey projects and we're transitioning to more equipment projects, which is better risk-return equation over time. We saw meaningful improvement in services revenue, up 13%, due to strong transactional backlog execution and higher outages. Our portfolio revenue was down 9%, driven by steam. Offsetting this, power conversion and nuclear were both up. Segment margin was negative, but improving by 110 basis points. Gas power margin was positive and expanded significantly. This was largely driven by positive mix from higher-margin services volume and reducing fixed costs. Our portfolio margin contracted, but largely driven by steam project execution and unfavorable legacy project arbitration resolutions. We're progressing through our planned exit of new build coal and concluded our European Works Council consultations this quarter. Both power conversion and nuclear expanded margins, operational improvements continued. Turning to renewables. We're playing a leadership role in the energy transition while building a profitable growth business for GE. We continue to improve operational execution and scale offshore wind, and we remain on track for our full-year commitment. Starting with the market. In onshore wind, we're expecting the US market to slightly decrease this year, while robust growth continues abroad. In offshore wind, the strong market trends are expected to continue through the decade. And broadly speaking, grid is positioned to gain momentum as the energy transition accelerates and government stimulus increases. Now, on the quarter. Orders grew double digits in onshore, offshore and grid solutions, all up. Grid was the biggest driver following a large HVDC system order. Onshore wind services, including more than 120 repower units, increased significantly. Offshore wind is building momentum, with more Haliade-X orders expected in the second half. Revenue was flat, with equipment revenues growth up high single digits, offset by a significant decline in services. In onshore wind, equipment was higher with more than 760 units delivered, while services were down as we did not deliver any repower upgrades. However, digital services were up significantly, excluding repower. Offshore wind growth was driven by continued execution on EDF six-megawatt PBG project in France. grid declined due to deal selectivity and commercial execution. Segment margin, while negative, improved by 310 basis points. In onshore wind, margin improved significantly, driven by cost productivity and execution, partly offset by product mix. In grid, cost out more than offset incremental restructuring expenses. Next, on aviation. Our team continues to position the business for the rebound, despite current market challenges. As the aviation end market recovers, which we believe will begin in the second half, we expect to deliver on our '21 outlook, revenue growth, margin expansion and better cash generation. GE CFM departures were down 40% year over year, in line with our guide from outlook. We're encouraged that March departure levels improved significantly versus January and February, but regional pressures continue, especially in Europe and Asia, ex China. Orders were down more than 25%, with commercial services down more than 40%, but some improvement sequentially. And commercial engines, down less than 10%, supported by multiple large orders, including one for 22 GE9X engines. The aviation backlog stands at about 260 billion, down slightly sequentially. The largest drivers were commercial engines and services, with approximately 400 LEAP-1B cancellations. For context, our LEAP unit backlog stands at more than 9,200 engines. The revenue decline was driven by commercial engines, double -- down double digits, and commercial services down 40%. Commercial services saw lower spare parts sales and lower shop visits. Although dynamics varied by engine and region, shop visits were broadly in line with our guided outlook. In military, revenue was flat due to favorable equipment mix despite 50 lower unit shipments. Overall, engine deliveries remain pressured, primarily in rotorcraft, and our team continues to address these supply chain challenges. Segment margin contracted to approximately 13%, primarily driven by commercial services. However, decrementals improved to 19%, and margin expanded sequentially as our cost actions continue to take hold. We're on track to realize the incremental half billion of benefits for 2021. Moving to healthcare. We're excited about the progress we're seeing. The team's strong performance shows how implementing lean and decentralization is driving real results. Overall, market fundamentals are also improving. For the third consecutive quarter, global procedures volumes were up double digits. Demand for non-pandemic products was solid as government stimulus drove strong order growth in China, India and Japan. Meanwhile, demand for pandemic-related products began to normalize. We're seeing elective procedures return to pre-pandemic levels, but there is still much for us to do to support our customers. Many are running at reduced capacity and have patients waiting longer than usual for screenings, treatments and procedures. With that backdrop, healthcare orders continue to improve. Health care systems orders were up 5% with equipment and services growth. Imaging and ultrasound improved double digits, both year over year and compared to the first-quarter '19. And CT grew across all regions, while Life Care Solution orders were down as pandemic-related demand softened. PDx demand continued to recover, with orders up 7%, driven by CT screening for cardiac disease and routine oncology and neurology screenings returning to pre-pandemic levels. Health care revenue was also up. Health care systems, up 7% across businesses. Two highlights. Ultrasound demand was high, with growth across most regions and all product lines. And Life Care Solutions grew again this quarter. PDx revenue was up 7% with elective procedures returning to pre-pandemic levels. Segment margins expanded an impressive 270 basis points driven by profitable growth and continued cost reduction, while we still invest for growth, especially in imaging, ultrasound and LCS. Moving to slide eight. At capital, adjusted continuing operations generated a net loss which was half of last year's loss. This was primarily driven by insurance and tax, partially offset by lower EFS gains. At insurance, we continue to see a positive claims trend and strong investment results versus last year when we had pandemic-related marks and impairments as well. GE capital assets, excluding cash, were down almost 6 billion sequentially, driven by the GECAS transaction and lower factoring. Within discontinued op, two to call out. GECAS had a net loss of 2.6 billion, which includes the loss on sale of 2.8 billion from the AerCap transaction, offset by about 200 million of earnings, with the collections progress on previously granted deferrals, and we ended the quarter with 20 aircraft on ground. We may see levels fluctuate throughout 2021 due to the continued market volatility. We've previously noted ongoing litigation related to our run-off Polish mortgage portfolio. This quarter, we recorded charges of approximately 300 million. This is based on the rising number of borrower losses filed and expected to be filed in the future, as well as higher discount rates. We expect upcoming decisions of the European Court of Justice and the Polish Supreme Court to have an impact on the litigation landscape for Polish banks, including our run-off Polish mortgage business. Moving to corporate. We remain focused on leaner processes and decentralization. If I compare the adjusted corporate costs with when I started a year ago, we are down almost 50%, most notably here are our functional costs and operations, which improved over 40% and in digital, focusing on driving growth and improved profitability with a strong performance from grid software this quarter. Taking a step back, Larry and I recognize the positive sustainable impact that lean will create at GE. We are picking up the pace. And while it's still early, we're building momentum with measurable impact this quarter, as you've seen. This is becoming more visible at corporate as well. We've significantly transformed how we operate, moving more work to the businesses and further streamlining the remaining corporate functions. And we have an increased focus on strategy, capital allocation, research, talent and governance. Now, Larry, back to you.Larry Culp -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Carolina, thanks. Let's go to slide nine. In summary, this quarter was a solid start to 2021. Thanks to our team, we're making measurable and sustainable progress, and we're set up well to deliver on our 2021 commitments that we shared with you in March. Since joining GE, one of my top priorities has been instilling greater focus throughout the organization. The GECAS transaction announced last month marks an important step forward in making GE a more focused, simpler and stronger industrial company, one that's even better positioned to serve the needs of our customers and the world with leading technologies and strong service capabilities across our installed base. As we are building a world that works, we're also creating a more sustainable future, leading in the energy transition, driving more integrated and personalized healthcare and enabling smarter and more efficient flight. I hope the business examples we've shared today helped convey the real operational and cultural changes under way at GE. There are many steps, big and small, happening across our company right now that make me excited about the future. We remain focused on growth, profit and cash generation, and I'm confident in our ability to drive value for the long term. Steve, with that, let's go to questions.Steve Winoker -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Larry. And before we open the line, I'd ask everyone in the queue to consider your fellow analysts again, and ask just one question so we can get to as many people as possible. John, can you please open the line? 