
OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Latif and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Intuit's First Quarter Fiscal Year 2022 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]With that, I'll now turn the call over to Kim Watkins, Intuit's Vice President of Investor Relations. Ms. Watkins?Kim Watkins -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thanks, Latif. Good afternoon and welcome to Intuit's first quarter fiscal 2022 conference call. I'm here with Intuit's CEO, Sasan Goodarzi; and Michelle Clatterbuck, our CFO.Before we start, I'd like to remind everyone that our remarks will include forward-looking statements. There are a number of factors that could cause Intuit's results to differ materially from our expectations. You can learn more about these risks in the press release we issued earlier this afternoon, our Form 10-K for fiscal 2021 and our other SEC filings. All of those documents are available on the Investor Relations page of Intuit's website at intuit.com. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.Some of the numbers in these remarks are presented on a non-GAAP basis. We've reconciled the comparable GAAP and non-GAAP numbers in today's press release. Unless otherwise noted all growth rates refer to the current period versus the comparable prior year period and the business metrics and associated growth rates refer to worldwide business metrics. A copy of our prepared remarks and supplemental financial information will be available on our website after this call ends.With that, I'll turn the call over to Sasan.

 



Sasan Goodarzi -- Chief Executive OfficerGreat. Thanks, Kim and thanks to all of you for joining us today. We're off to a strong start in fiscal year 2022 with continued momentum across the company given our strategy of becoming a global AI driven expert platform, powering the prosperity of consumers and small businesses. We have nearly $300 billion addressable market driven by digital tailwinds that include a shift to virtual solutions, acceleration to online and omnichannel capabilities and digital money offerings.First quarter revenue grew 52% including 32 points from the addition of Credit Karma. Total revenue growth was fueled by Small Business and Self Employed Group revenue growth of 22% and Credit Karma revenue of $418 million, another record quarter. Consumer Group and ProConnect Group revenue was in line with our expectations in a seasonally small quarter. As a result, both of our strong start to the year and the close of Mailchimp transaction, we are raising our revenue and non-GAAP operating income and earnings per share guidance for fiscal year 2022. Michelle will cover this in detail later.Our AI driven expert platform strategy is accelerating innovation and our five Big Bets are solving the largest problems our customers states. We continue to deliver strong proof points that demonstrate the success and are well positioned for durable growth in the future. As a reminder, these Big Bets are revolutionize speed to benefit, connect people to experts, unlock smart money decisions, be the center of small business growth and disrupt the small business mid-market. Today, I'd like to highlight examples of our recent progress across three of these Big Bets. Our third big bet is to unlock smart money decisions. I'm extremely proud of the momentum we are seeing with Credit Karma. Credit Karma is a data platform with powerful network effects solving a two-sided problem. We are focused on our goal of creating a personal financial assistant that helps consumers find the right financial products, put more money in their pockets and access financial experts and insights. Credit Karma achieved record high revenue again in Q1. We continue to deliver innovation across all verticals fueled by our proprietary Lightbox platform enabling personalized experiences for our members, creating a network effect.

 



Within the core, partners' usage of Lightbox reached all time highs across both credit cards and personal loans. Lightbox more than doubled the average approval rate for members who apply for credit cards on Credit Karma versus outside of Credit Karma. Within the growth verticals, we're solving a larger set of financial challenges for consumers. Karma Drive is giving US members the opportunity to see if they can save money on auto insurance with usage based pricing. We're actively exploring expansion opportunities with Lightbox in other verticals including auto loans, building off of the successes we've seen in credit cards and personal loans.Within the emerging verticals, we remain focused on innovation with Credit Karma Money. We integrated Credit Karma Money into TurboTax last season and experimented with how we can best meet our customers' needs and announced an integration with QuickBooks Online Payroll. Given our learnings, we are excited about launching our improved experiences in the coming tax season. We believe Credit Karma Money is the key to driving growth in frequency of visits over time, one of the many key drivers of average revenue per monthly active user. Zooming out, we continue to grow members and are focused on building trust by delivering personalized financial products right for members, helping members save money, pay down debt and get faster access to their money while providing insight and advice. Over time, we're creating a virtual cycle, which we expect to increase the frequency of engagement, transaction and monetization across our ecosystem.Our fourth big bet is to become the center of small business growth by helping our customers get customers, get paid fast, manage capital, pay employees with confidence and grow in an omnichannel world. 60% of small businesses struggle with cash flow and we are continuing to innovate to create solutions for customers to overcome this challenge. In fiscal year 2021, total payments volume on our platform grew 40% year-over-year to over $90 billion and online payments volume grew more than 60%, driven by an increase in customers using our payments offering. As we continue to innovate for our customers and payments, those using QuickBooks Cash of nearly 3 times higher engagement compared to customers who just use QuickBooks Online. Through accelerating engagement and usage of our platform, we recently introduced Get Paid Upfront, a game-changing innovation that will help qualified customers get paid soon after their invoices set.Our fifth big bet is to disrupt the small business mid market with QuickBooks Online Advanced. We're seeing strong traction with QBO Advanced with customers growing 118,000 in fiscal year 2021, up 57% year-over-year. As we continue to move up market and serve these customers most critical needs, we are seeing a services ecosystem ARPC that is 4 times higher than the ARPC for QBO customers. We're pleased with our results and remain confident in our game plan to win. Across all of our Big Bets, we're building momentum and accelerating innovation, which we believe positions us well for durable growth in the future. This will be further fueled by Mailchimp.I'm delighted that we closed Mailchimp, closed the acquisition earlier this month, which seeks to significantly accelerate two of our Big Bets to be the center of small business growth and to disrupt the small business mid-market. Getting an engaging customers remain a significant pain point for small and mid-market businesses. We are well on our way to becoming the source of truth for our customers to help them grow and run their business. We have three acceleration priorities with Mailchimp. First priority, is to deliver on our vision of an end-to-end customer growth platform to help customers get their business online, market their business, manage their customers' relationships, get paid, access capital, pay employees, manage cash flow and be compliant with virtual experts at their fingertips all in one place. Second, disrupting the mid-market by developing a full marketing automation CRM and e-commerce suite for mid-market customers at an attractive price point, enabling mid-market customers to use the power of the platform to grow their business. And third, accelerating global growth with a holistic go-to-market approach.With Mailchimp now part of the Intuit family, we are uniquely positioned to enable small and mid-market businesses to combine their customer data from Mailchimp and purchase data from QuickBooks to deliver actionable insights they need to grow and run their businesses with confidence. This is where the real magic happens. Our combined platform technology enables us to move with speed and we've already seen strong interest from our customers. The teams are hard at work and we are excited about the opportunity ahead.Foundational to our company's success is building a high performance culture. I want to take a moment to acknowledge our progress with our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts. Last year, we declared our focus on increasing the percentages of women and technology rolls and underrepresented minorities across our business. We achieved 30% and 13% respectively. And we are inspired to accelerate our plans and push even harder as much work remains to be done. Additionally, we've made meaningful progress supporting our communities. First, we recently announced, Intuit Climate Action Marketplace, which will help 1 Million US Small Businesses find sustainable solutions to reduce carbon emissions. This is part of our decade long climate positive goal to go beyond net carbon-neutral and reduce global carbon emissions by 2 million metric tons by 2030 or 50 times greater than our 2018 operational footprint.We also recently announced the 23-year partnership with the Los Angeles Clippers, that includes economic benefits for the local community with Intuit Dome, the teams future home. And finally, we launched Intuit Ventures to invest in the start-up community and accelerate fintech innovation for consumers and small businesses. All the work we do starts with our mission of powering prosperity around the world. And I'm proud of the momentum across the company in delivering on that mission for our customers and communities.Now, let me hand it over to Michelle.Michelle Clatterbuck -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Sasan. Good afternoon, everyone. And I'd also like to welcome the Mailchimp team to Intuit.Now let me turn to the results. For the first quarter of fiscal 2022, we delivered revenue of $2 billion. GAAP operating income of $195 million versus $209 million last year. Non-GAAP operating income of $555 million versus $334 million last year. GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.82 versus $0.75 a year ago and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $1.53 versus $0.94 last year. Note that our GAAP results include a $39 million net gain on other long-term investments.Turning to the business segments. In the Small Business and Self Employed Group, revenue grew 22% during the quarter with Online Ecosystem revenue up 36%. With the aim of being the source of truth for Small Businesses, our strategic focus within Small Business and Self Employed is threefold: grow the core, connect the ecosystem and expand globally. First, we continued to focus on growing the core. QuickBooks Online Accounting revenue grew 32% in fiscal Q1, driven mainly by customer growth, higher effective prices and mix shift. Second, we continued to focus on connecting the ecosystem. Online services revenue, which includes payroll, payments, capital and time tracking grew 42% in fiscal Q1. Within payroll, we continued to see revenue tailwinds during the quarter from growth in payroll customers and a mix shift to our full-service offering. Within payments revenue growth reflects ongoing customer growth, along with an increase in charge volume per customer. Third, our progress expanding globally added to the growth of Online Ecosystem revenue during fiscal Q1. Total international online revenue grew 39% on a constant currency basis. We believe the best measure of the health and success of our strategy is Online Ecosystem revenue growth, which we expect to grow better than 30% organically over time. This is driven by 10% to 20% expected growth in both customers and ARPC. Desktop Ecosystem revenue grew 7% in the first quarter. QuickBooks Desktop Enterprise revenue grew high single-digits, driven by strong customer growth and price increases we put in place late last year. As a reminder, this fall, we transitioned to a subscription model for this year's desktop offering, which we expect to be a headwind to revenue growth in the second half of the year. We expect the desktop business to decline longer term.Moving on to Credit Karma. Revenue was $418 million in Q1, another record revenue quarter, driven by high levels of monthly active users and revenue per monthly active user. Within the core, we saw another record quarter, driven by the combined strength in personal loans and credit cards. The growth verticals also achieved another strong quarter reflecting momentum in home loans and auto loans and we're developing the emerging vertical by focusing on innovation with Credit Karma Money, part of our digital money offering. So this is not a large revenue driver today. We continue to expect pent-up demand across the core verticals to taper sometime in the second half of fiscal 2022 after a strong year of investment by our partners. We remain excited about the opportunities ahead.Consumer Group revenue of $120 million in Q1 was in line with our expectations. Looking ahead to the upcoming tax season, we continue to focus on our strategy to expand our lead in DIY and transform the assisted segment with TurboTax Live. As to the ProConnect Group, revenue of $26 million in the quarter was also in line with our expectations.Turning to our financial principles. We remain committed to growing organic revenue double-digits and growing operating income dollars faster than revenue. As I've shared before, as we lean into our platform strategy, we see the opportunity for margin expansion over time. We take a disciplined approach to capital management investing the cash we generate in opportunities that yield an expected return on investment greater than 15%. We continue to reallocate resources to top priorities with an emphasis on becoming an AI-driven expert platform. These principles guide our decisions and remain our long-term commitment.Our first priority for the cash we generate is investing in the business to drive customer and revenue growth. We consider acquisitions to accelerate our growth and fill out our product roadmap. We return excess cash that we can't invest profitably in the business to shareholders via both share repurchases and dividends. We finished the quarter with approximately $3.3 billion in cash and investments on our balance sheet. On November 1, we entered into a $4.7 billion term loan under a new credit arrangements at credit agreement to partially fund the Mailchimp acquisition. We repurchased $339 million of stock during the first quarter. Depending on market conditions and other factors, our aim is to be in the market each quarter. The Board approved a quarterly dividend of $0.68 per share payable January 18, 2022. This represents a 15% increase versus last year.Moving on to guidance. We are raising our full-year fiscal 2022 revenue and non-GAAP operating income and earnings per share guidance to reflect both the acquisition of Mailchimp and the stronger-than-expected start to the year in the Small Business and Self Employed Group and Credit Karma. Our updated fiscal 2022 guidance includes revenue of $12.165 billion to $12.3 billion, growth of 26% to 28% including Mailchimp as of November 1 and a full year of Credit Karma, excluding Mailchimp revenue growth of 18% to 20%, up from our prior guidance of 15% to 16%. GAAP earnings per share of $7 to $7.16 and non-GAAP earnings per share of $11.48 to $11.64. This updated fiscal 2022 guidance includes organic growth for the Small Business and Self Employed segment of 16% to 17%, up from 12% to 14%. Expected Mailchimp revenue of $760 million to $770 million and Credit Karma revenue of $1.54 billion to $1.565 billion, up from $1.345 billion to $1.38 billion.As I've shared before, we continue to see opportunities to leverage the platform and drive margin expansion over time. Excluding Mailchimp, our non-GAAP operating income guidance continues to imply approximately 60 basis points of margin expansion in fiscal 2022. Our guidance assumes the Mailchimp transaction is accretive to Intuit's non-GAAP earnings per share in full year fiscal 2022. However, we expect an approximately 80 basis point one-time step down in non-GAAP operating margin, reflecting the impact of Mailchimp as we plan to invest aggressively in the business. We expect non-GAAP operating margin expansion to continue from this new level over time in line with our financial principles.Our fiscal 2022 GAAP operating income guidance includes approximately $165 million for stock-based compensation associated with the acquisition of Mailchimp. In addition, our GAAP operating income guidance includes the impact of the Credit Karma acquisition along with investments we are making in stock compensation to attract and retain talent. We're confident these are the right decisions to drive long-term growth. And we expect a GAAP tax rate of 18% in fiscal 2022.Our guidance for the second quarter of fiscal 2022 includes revenue growth of 73% to 74%. GAAP earnings per share of $0.55 to $0.59 and non-GAAP earnings per share of $1.84 to $1.88. You can find our full Q2 and updated fiscal 2022 guidance details in our press release and on our fact sheet.And with that, I'll turn it back to you, Sasan.Sasan Goodarzi -- Chief Executive OfficerGreat, thank you, Michelle. We are off to a strong start this year with continued momentum across the company, given our strategy of being an AI-driven expert platform that's powering prosperity for consumers and small businesses. I'm proud of what our employees have accomplished this quarter and I'm excited about the opportunities ahead to find new innovative ways to serve our more than 100 million customers.Now let's open it up to your questions.