  OperatorWelcome to the Dentsply Sirona first quarter 2022 results conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Andrea Daley, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Andrea Daley -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Anthony, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our first-quarter earnings call. Joining me for today's call is John Groetelaars, our chief executive officer; and Barbara Bodem, our CFO. I'd like to remind you that an earnings call press release and slide presentation related to the call are available in the Investors section of our website at www.dentsplysirona.com.

 



 Before we begin, please take a moment to read the forward-looking statements in our earnings press release. During today's call, we may make certain predictive statements that reflect our current views about future performance and financial results. We base these statements and certain assumptions and expectations on future events that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our most recently filed Form 10-K and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings lists some of the most important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from our predictions.In today's conference call, our remarks will be based on non-GAAP financial results. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with useful supplemental information about financial performance of our business, enable the comparison of financial results between periods where certain items may vary independently of business performance and allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in operating our business. Please refer to our press release for the reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results. And with that, I will now turn the call over to John. John Groetelaars -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Andrea, and thank you all for joining us this morning for the Q1 earnings call. Today, we will cover four items. I'll start with an overview of the first quarter. Barb will cover the quarter's preliminary financial results and our updated '22 outlook, and then I will finish by providing a strategic operating update.

 



 Before we begin, let me start with why I'm excited to be here and why I took the role as interim CEO. I joined Dentsply Sirona's board because of the value I believe the company can create for its shareholders over the near, medium and long term. First, the company plays in an attractive category with real growth opportunities. Macro trends are supportive, and those who can innovate, leverage global scale and execute judiciously will emerge as long-term winners. Second, Dentsply Sirona has a strong foundation. The company's plan has allowed it to focus its innovation efforts, strengthen its demand generation capabilities and simplify the operating structure. Third, we are approaching the interim period with a sense of urgency and a focus on execution, and we are not coming from a standing start. Barbara and I have been working together for many years, and we have vast public company experience, where we have grown the business, while focusing on costs and pursuing disciplined capital allocation strategies. With that opening, Q1 was a challenging quarter, which led to disappointing results. Barb will share more with you about how the key drivers of underperformance impacted the quarter's financial results, including the weaker sales performance in the U.S., global supply chain challenges and unfavorable foreign exchange rates. While we have challenges, we also have areas of the business performing quite well. Our European region delivered organic growth of 7%, and our strategic growth categories, including the implants and SureSmile business, grew high single digits and double digits, respectively. Additionally, this quarter, we were pleased with the double-digit sequential growth of our total clear aligner business. We have updated the 2022 outlook, which further considers the significant macroeconomic headwinds that are unfolding, including impacts from prolonged supply chain challenges, COVID-related restrictions in China, Russia-Ukraine related disruptions and unfavorable foreign exchange rates. We are committed to returning cash to shareholders in Q1, and we announced a double-digit dividend increase and completed a $150 million ASR program.Lastly, an important point to highlight is that innovation is vital to our growth, and we continue to invest for future growth, despite the challenging macroeconomic environment. Moving now to Slide 6.

 



 As I mentioned, Q1 was a challenging quarter with revenue of $965 million, which represents a decline of 1.4% on an organic basis versus the prior year. Our operating margin was 15.9%. The rate was impacted by lower manufacturing volumes and inflationary pressures, while SG&A and R&D investments were maintained to support innovation and the expected volume recovery. Before I turn the call over to Barb to provide more details on our financial performance, I would like to address the Form 12b-25 we filed with the SEC this morning. As a result of an ongoing investigation by the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors, Dentsply Sirona has not been able to finalize its financial statements or its assessment of the impact of the investigation on its financial statements for the three months ending March 31, 2022, and we are therefore unable to file the Form 10-Q on a timely basis. For additional information, please refer to our SEC filings. Needless to say, we're eager for the Audit Committee to complete its work and for the company to be able to file the 10-Q as expeditiously as possible. We will provide updates as there is more information to share. With that, I'll turn the call over to Barb.Barb Bodem -- Interim Chief Financial Officer Thank you, John. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, I will cover first quarter preliminary results and then provide an update on our 2022 outlook. As a reminder, our remarks today will be based on non-GAAP financial results, unless otherwise noted. Please refer to the reconciliation tables at the back of the press release and slides, both of which are posted in the Investors section of our website. Before I begin, I would like to note how excited I am to join the company in an interim capacity. I've worked with John over the past three years as a public company CFO, and I am now looking forward to working with the rest of the team at Dentsply Sirona as we execute against the many opportunities that are ahead of us. In the first quarter, the business delivered revenue of $965 million, in line with the preliminary results we announced on April 19. In comparison to prior year, organic sales declined by 1.4%, and reported sales declined by 6.1%. The decline versus last year was driven by foreign exchange, U.S. regional performance, increasing challenges in our global supply chain and emerging COVID-related softness in China. Regions outside of the U.S. posted healthy growth in the period, along with the global implants and SureSmile businesses. While we continued to experience supply chain constraints, most notably in imaging, the demand for these products remains strong as evidenced by our high order backlog. Also as a reminder, Q1 2021 was a period where the dental industry was continuing to replenish in certain categories from COVID, particularly in consumables, providing a difficult year-over-year comparison. Similarly, our Byte business was up against tough year-over-year comps. That said, we are pleased with the sequential growth that Byte posted in the quarter. To highlight underlying momentum, Byte unique visitor traffic hit a record high in March. Gross profit was $547 million or 56.7% of sales. Gross margin rate declined 280 basis points year over year due to foreign exchange, unfavorable mix and volumes and inflationary pressure on materials and distribution costs. These headwinds were partially offset by benefits from recently launched products and price increases. SG&A expenses were $349 million or 36.2% of sales. On an absolute basis, SG&A decreased by 1%. R&D spend was $45 million, an increase of 11.1% year over year, which reflects our continued commitment and focus on accelerating our innovation pipeline. As a reminder, last quarter, we've reclassified certain expenses from SG&A to R&D. This had no impact on operating margin, and the prior-year period adjustment was $3 million. Operating income was $153 million, down 30% versus last year. This was due to unfavorable foreign exchange rates, U.S. performance, supply chain pressures and increased investments in R&D. As a result, operating margin was 15.9%. We attribute approximately 60% of the year-over-year decline to the transitory macro challenges of foreign exchange, inflationary pressures and the impact of COVID in China. As a result, adjusted earnings per share was $0.52 versus $0.72 in the prior-year quarter. Operating cash flow was $93 million, a 90% increase year over year, mostly to fluctuations in working capital. The company has a strong balance sheet and finished the quarter with $374 million in cash on hand. During the quarter, we returned $174 million to shareholders in the form of increased dividends and $150 million of share repurchases. Now turning to the segment performance in the quarter. Technologies & Equipment organic sales declined 0.5%, and consumables decreased 2.7%. The T&E segment organic sales decline was driven by CAD/CAM, while implants posted strong growth in the quarter with contributions from all regions. Our CAD/CAM business declined versus last year due to lower sales in the U.S., while it grew outside of the U.S. As shared last quarter, in Q1, we executed on our plan for Primemill to focus available supply on needed spare parts. Ortho slightly decreased year over year as the anticipated decline in Byte given the tough comps year-over-year offset growth in SureSmile. As I mentioned previously, we are pleased with the momentum we are seeing in the clear aligner sequentially. The E&I business posted growth, despite supply chain constraints, which primarily continued to impact sales of 3D imaging equipment. The consumables segment organic sales decline was driven by lower sales in the U.S., patient volume softness attributed to COVID in certain markets, most notably in China, and supply chain constraints. Endo, a strategic growth area, posted growth in the quarter across all regions, and we are pleased with the progress from recent product launches. The sales decline was partly offset by benefit from price increases taken in the fourth quarter of 2021. Now turning to financial performance by region during the first quarter. U.S. sales were $299 million. Organic sales declined by 13.5% due to the lower sales in CAD/CAM and certain consumables, supply chain constraints and tough year-over-year comps, primarily in consumables and Byte. Dealer sales were lower due to higher CAD/CAM inventory levels at the start of the quarter. Implants and Endo both posted growth in the region. European sales were $416 million, with organic growth of 7% attributed to robust performance in the T&E segment with strategic growth areas, including CAD/CAM, ortho and implants all posting double-digit growth. Rest of the World sales were $250 million, representing organic growth of 1.4%, with growth in both segments. Resto, CAD/CAM and implants experienced healthy growth in the period. Rest of the World growth was unfavorably impacted by increased government restrictions associated with COVID variant, primarily in China, as well as market disruptions in Australia as a result of flooding. Now let me provide you an update on the financial expectation we have for the 2022 full year. Given the significance of the headwinds we experienced in Q1 and what we can reasonably estimate for the remainder of the year, we are updating our 2022 outlook. We now expect fiscal 2022 organic sales growth to be in the 2% to 3% range. This equates to a net sales range of $4.1 billion to $4.2 billion. The dental market remains attractive and resilient, despite pandemic variant outbreaks, which continue to challenge certain markets. Additionally, our robust R&D platform and pipeline are enhancing our commercial solutions to meet the most pressing needs of our end customers and channel partners. As we navigate a difficult external environment, we continue to focus on opportunities to sustain and drive expansion of margin. While we expect to see some period-to-period fluctuations, we estimate that for the full year, operating margin rate will be greater than 17%. Over the last few years, this organization has delivered considerable margin expansion through simplification and portfolio optimization. We believe those initiatives will serve as a solid foundation, enabling us to better navigate the acute macro challenges. Our expected 2022 adjusted earnings per share is now in the range of $2.35 to $2.55. I would like to now touch upon the five key drivers impacting our revised outlook. They are listed on Slide 13 in the earnings presentation. First, we continue to see governmental restrictions in response to COVID variant outbreaks in China. The impact from these restrictions started mid-Q1 and has persisted through April, and we are now estimating a prolonged impact further into the year. For reference, in 2021, China represented approximately 5% of the company's total sales. And therefore, the continuation of major disruption in the market is a notable headwind. Additionally, we are closely monitoring this disruption's potential impact on our global supply chain. Our commercial and supply chain teams are working diligently to effectively navigate and minimize the impact to our business and customers. Another regional challenge is the disruption from the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, which was not considered in our original outlook. Our revised outlook has been risk-adjusted, removing all sales to Ukraine for the remainder of the year and reducing sales to Russia in compliance with known sanctions. The risk adjustment represents a modest headwind for the total company. On the supply chain, material shortages and inflationary pressures also represent significant headwinds, which we now expect to continue through the rest of the year. The component shortages impacting several parts of our business, most notably 3D imaging, have been significant. However, we are encouraged by the continuation of strong customer -- end customer demand globally. Lastly, we have revised our foreign exchange assumptions based on the weakening euro, which represents a larger headwind for us versus the original outlook. Our updated assumption for the euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate for the full year is $1.08, which is lower than our previous assumption of $1.14 and the fiscal year 2021 average of $1.19. We view these five drivers as significant but transitory headwinds, and our team is working diligently to navigate and minimize the impact of these challenges. Now let me provide some color on the quarterly cadence for the rest of the year. First, we are projecting sequential growth over the remaining periods of the year. In Q2, we anticipate sequential growth will come from normalizing dealer inventory levels as well as benefits from recent product launches and price increases. These improvements will be partially offset with softer commercial volumes in China and Ukraine. The back half of the year will further benefit from the momentum we are seeing in strategic parts of the business and the opportunities we can capitalize on through strong execution, including new product launches. Additionally, we continue to project that our clear aligners business will grow sequentially, and Byte will be a contributor to 2022 growth. As a reminder, in Q2, Byte will continue to face tough comps to the strong pandemic driven performance in the first half of 2021. Nonetheless, it is highly additive to our overall clear aligner strategy, and we are seeing the merits of the transaction come through. In closing, we are optimistic that despite a challenging environment, the renewed focus we are now applying will benefit the trajectory of the company. Over the long term, we believe that improved execution, combined with the resilience of the dental market, will allow us to continue to expand revenue and earnings. Additionally, the strength of our EBITDA generation enables a very competitive cash flow yield to our shareholders. We remain committed to returning at least 50% of our free cash flow to our shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases. With that, I will now turn the call back to John.John Groetelaars -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Barb. Moving on, I wanted to provide some perspective on our strategy and priorities moving forward. First, we have a robust portfolio of leading products and solutions in a strong end market that gives us confidence in our future. The long-term strategy of the company is compelling with a healthy innovation pipeline that is positioned to deliver growth. I believe in it, and so does our board. This strategy is one of the key aspects that attracted me to this organization as I was considering joining the board. The Dentsply Sirona team has continued to sharpen the strategy over time, while improving innovation capabilities which, combined with a renewed focus on execution, will create powerful momentum going forward. I would like to highlight that the expectations we have for the business don't change. We expect to build on our capabilities to deliver over the long term, specifically, reliable 4% to 5% top line growth, continuous improvement in margins and, ultimately, double-digit earnings growth once we cycle past the acute challenges we are currently facing. Our strategy of delivering superior integrated workflows and critical procedures will allow this company to become the vital digital partner to the dentist. I'm not new to digital transformation. We were on a similar journey at Hill-Rom, and I plan to draw upon those experiences as I work closely with the team here to accelerate the transformation with relentless focus on driving improved outcomes for our customers. Barb and I are a proven team with a demonstrated track record of driving long-term shareholder value, while executing with rigor across a broad portfolio in a very challenging macro environment that we have all been witnessing in the past few years. The challenges we see at Dentsply Sirona have a high degree of correlation to challenges that we have both successfully navigated in the past. Importantly, we are both committed to delivering sequential financial improvement on the preliminary Q1 results, as we take the reins of leadership at the company. While we believe in the company's strategy, we also believe there is value in conducting an evaluation of our operational performance to ensure that we are laser focused on our key priorities moving forward. Turning now to Slide 16. We have a robust 2022 launch schedule already underway as evidenced by the launch event we held on May 4 to bring DS Core to market. DS Core will deliver end-to-end digital workflow from diagnosis to treatment, and it represents an important first step on our long journey of innovation in the dental market. Reiterating my earlier comments, we are committed to innovation, and we will continue to deliver it. This company has a rich history of innovating, and we intend to be the leader on the forefront of the digital transformation in the dental industry. An important area to enable accelerating our digital portfolio is in software development. This organization has invested resources over the last 18 months to overhaul the entire approach in this area, shifting from developing individual software for a long list of different devices and treatment plans to building a single platform that will support all of our devices and an extensive treatment planning portfolio. Primeprint is now launching in our select markets on a limited basis. We are excited about Primeprint as it offers complete integration with the CEREC system and will allow the dentist to produce things like night guards, surgical guides and full-scale models quickly and inexpensively. This launch will also come with a complete service package through DS Core, including DS Core Create, which is a comprehensive design workflow to help save valuable dentist time. Our innovation is focused on bringing leading solutions to our four key procedural areas in dentistry: aligners; implants; resto; and endo. Over the last year, the Dentsply Sirona team has been able to bring innovation to each of these areas, and we will continue that momentum with focus on what these solutions mean to our strategy to deliver superior integrated workflows, integrated workflows that start with diagnostic excellence, easy-to-use treatment planning and essential consumables. Through integrated workflows, we can widen our share of wallet, become the essential partner and provide significant value to our customers. Let me highlight a few closing comments. We are encouraged by the good momentum we have in strategic growth areas of the business, like implants and clear aligners. We are also very pleased with the performance in our international markets in such a challenging environment as further evidence that our strategy is working. Our focus going forward will be on driving disciplined and robust execution to capitalize on the momentum. As we exit this quarter, we remain confident that the portfolio is well positioned in an attractive market to drive sustainable growth over the long term, and that will continue to be our top priority. In my first few weeks, I have seen a very engaged, mission-driven and passionate organization that is ready to embrace a clear set of priorities to address our supply chain challenges, U.S. performance and deliver strong new product growth. This is a renewed sense of confidence that we will build upon as we move through the remainder of the year. The revised 2022 outlook now reflects known macro challenges. We are confident in the strength of the underlying business, and we will move expeditiously to complete our diagnostic analysis, so that we can accelerate progress against a compelling strategy with a focus on execution. With this, we are optimistic about the sequential improvement we expect to see throughout 2022. The search process is underway for the permanent CEO and CFO. The board is focused on finding candidates with a track record of world-class execution and operational expertise who can best position Dentsply Sirona as the innovation leader with the most extensive global footprint in the dental market. In the meantime, Barb and I are here to serve the organization. We will provide leadership stability and bring our diverse experiences to the table in partnership with the high-caliber Dentsply Sirona team. We will not be shy in taking swift action where we see improvement opportunities, and we intend to use the interim period to strengthen the base and do the hard work required to drive value creation for our shareholders. Finally, we look ahead with optimism. The Dentsply Sirona team is strong and resilient. I am confident that together we can overcome near-term challenges to deliver improvements and drive sustainable results. With that, let me now open up the call for questions. 