  OperatorGreetings and welcome to First Republic Bank's third-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mike Ioanilli, vice president and director of investor relations. Please go ahead.Mike Ioanilli -- Vice President and Director of Investor Relations Thank you and welcome to First Republic Bank's third-quarter 2021 conference call. Speaking today will be Jim Herbert, the bank's founder, chairman, and co-CEO; Gaye Erkan, co-CEO and president; and Mike Roffler, chief financial officer. Before I hand the call over to Jim, please note that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. For a more complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements, please see the bank's FDIC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today.

 



 All are available on the bank's website. And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Herbert.Jim Herbert -- Founder, Chairman, and Co-Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone. It was another strong quarter with robust growth in loans, deposits and wealth management assets. First Republic's unique simple client-centric business model continues to perform very well across all of our segments and our markets. Since 1985, First Republic's success has been grounded in a culture of exceptional service, taking care of each client one at a time, serving our existing clients exceptionally well. Nothing has changed. It is a story of straightforward execution of our model, which results in consistent compounding organic growth year after year. This quarter was not an exception.

 



 Let me review briefly the results for the third quarter. Total loans outstanding were up 18.8% year-to-date annualized. Total deposits have grown 39% year over year. Wealth management assets were up 50% year over year to a total of more than $250 billion. This across-the-board organic growth drove our very strong financial performance for the quarter. Year over year, total revenue has grown 30%. Net interest income was up 27%. And quite importantly, tangible book value per share increased almost 19%. The safety and soundness of the bank continues to reflect very strong credit quality. Net charge-offs for the quarter were only $292,000, that's a fraction of a basis point. Nonperforming assets at quarter end were only 7 basis points of total assets. As always, we're very focused on capital and liquidity. During the third quarter, we raised $1.2 billion of new Tier 1 capital to support our continued growth. This included common equity as well as our Series M Perpetual Preferred Stock, which was issued at our lowest dividend rate ever actually 4%. At quarter end, our Tier 1 leverage ratio was 8.55%. Our HQLA liquidity level at quarter end was 16.7% of total average assets.

 



 This included very strong cash levels. We continue to be focused on strengthening our communities as we have been for 36 years. For example, this month, we participated in a capital raise for the support of housing fund managed by SDS Capital Group. These funds will be used to address the homelessness challenge in California by providing additional permanent housing. Our participation in this initiative is a -- only a modest part of our long-term focus on investing and strengthening our communities. Overall, 2021 so far has been a strong and successful year. Now, let me turn the call over to Gaye Erkan, co-CEO and president.Gaye Erkan -- Co-Chief Executive Officer and President Thank you, Jim. It has indeed been a strong year thus far. The simplicity of our business model allows us to deliver consistent performance quarter after quarter, while remaining acutely focused on the long-term success of the franchise. Our strong performance supports further investments in the delivery and scalability of our client service model. For example, we continue to invest in our colleagues, new talent and operational infrastructure to support our growth. New preferred banking offices to deepen our presence in our existing markets and technology and digital enablement to further empower our colleagues and reinforce our trusted client relationships. Let me now provide some additional detail on this quarter's performance. Loan origination volume was very strong at $15.5 billion, up meaningfully from a year ago. This is our best third quarter ever. Single-family origination volume was strong at $7 billion. Single family continues to be a key driver of our growth representing more than 75% of our year-to-date loan growth. I would note that the weighted average loan-to-value ratio of single-family originations year-to-date was just 59%. Refinance accounted for 53% of single-family residential volume during the quarter. A large proportion of refinance activity continues to come from clients with loans at other institutions, providing us with great opportunities for new client acquisition. We continue to maintain our stringent underwriting standards. The weighted average loan-to-value ratio for all real estate loans originated during the third quarter remained conservative at 56%, slightly lower than the prior quarter. Turning to business banking. Business loans and line commitments, excluding PPP loans, were up 31% year over year. Capital call outstanding balances increased during the quarter, reflecting growth in commitments as well as an increased utilization rate of 37.3%. In terms of funding, it was an exceptional quarter. Total deposits were up 39% from a year ago. At quarter end, checking deposits represented 69% of total deposits. Business deposits represented 62% of total deposits, up slightly from the prior quarter. The average rate paid on all deposits for the quarter was just 6 basis points, leading to a total funding cost of 17 basis points. Turning to wealth management. Assets under management increased to $252 billion. This is an increase of $57 billion Year to date, over 60% of which was from net client inflows. Year to date, wealth management fees were up 47% from the same period a year ago. The strength of our integrated model continues to attract very high-quality wealth management teams to First Republic. In total, we have welcomed nine new teams year to date. This includes one team in the third quarter and another team already this quarter. Our third-quarter performance demonstrates the power of our service model and the ongoing dedication and care of our amazing colleagues. Now, I would like to turn the call over to Mike Roffler, chief financial officer.Mike Roffler -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Gaye. Our strong third-quarter results reflect the consistency of our business model. Revenue growth for the quarter was exceptional, up 30% year over year. This was driven by strong organic growth across the franchise, including loans, deposits and wealth management assets. Our net interest margin for the third quarter was 2.65%. This reflects the impact of our elevated cash position from fiscal and monetary policy, which has resulted in significant deposit growth. We continue to expect our net interest margin for the full-year 2021 to be in our previously communicated range of 2.65% to 2.75%. Importantly, net interest income was up a very strong 27% year over year. This is due to the robust growth in earning assets. Let me now provide a brief update on our core banking system conversion. We're very pleased with the progress of our core conversion and are in the final phase of delivery. We now expect to complete the conversion in the first quarter of 2022. This extension of one quarter will give us time for additional in-person testing and training that has been delayed due to the COVID-19 Delta variant. I would note that our efficiency ratio guidance for the full-year 2021 remains unchanged at 62% to 64%. For the quarter, our provision for credit losses was $34 million, which is reflective of our strong loan growth. As Jim noted earlier, we are particularly pleased with our Series M Preferred Stock offering in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter of 2021, our preferred stock dividend will be approximately $33 million. Turning to the tax rate, our effective tax rate for the third quarter was 21.4%. Under current tax law, we continue to expect our tax rate for the full-year 2021 to be in the range of 20% to 21%. Overall, this was a strong quarter. Now, I'll turn the call back over to Jim.Jim Herbert -- Founder, Chairman, and Co-Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Gaye and thank you, Mike. First Republic's time and cycle tested quite straightforward business model remains very focused on delivering the highest possible level of client service, staying focused on doing only what we do best and operating safely and soundly. We'd be delighted now to take your questions. Thank you. 