
OperatorHello, and welcome to the Incyte's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. We ask you to please ask one question and one follow-up, then return to the queue. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Christine Cho, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Christine Chiou -- Senior Director, Investor RelationsThank you, Kevin. Good morning and welcome to Incyte's third quarter 2021 earnings conference call and webcast. The slides presented today are available for download on the Investors section of our website. Joining me on the call today are Herve, Barry, Steven, and Christiana, who will deliver our prepared remarks and Dash, who will join us for the Q&A.Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that some of the statements made during the call today are forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially, including those described in our 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2021 and from time to time in our other SEC documents.We will now begin the call with Herve.Herve Hoppenot -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Christine, and good morning, everyone. I'm happy to report today on an important quarter for Incyte. But before we do that, I would like to take a moment to speak about the significant transformation our company has undergone over the past two years. From the third quarter of 2019 to today, Incyte has more than doubled its number of approved products, from 3 to 7, and has increased the number of approved indications from 5 to 12, a significant achievement for patients around the world.Within the same time period, quarterly product and royalty revenues have grown nearly 50% from $534 million to $778 million in the most recent quarter. The $778 million in product and royalty revenue for Q3 2021 does not yet reflect revenue contribution from our two most recent U.S. approvals, Opzelura in atopic dermatitis and Jakafi in steroid-refractory chronic GVHD. In addition, we expect further growth from the recent approvals of Pemazyre in Europe and Japan, and Minjuvi in Europe, where the launch is ongoing in Germany and we will expand to other countries as reimbursement is secured.As you see on slide 5, we have provided long-term guidance for some of these products and there is significant upside to the current set of numbers. Within hematology/oncology, our MPN/GVHD franchise, which includes Jakafi and other innovations, is expected to surpass $3 billion in peak sales. Additionally, Monjuvi, approved for the treatment of relapsed or refractory DLBCL, has the potential to reach $500 million in this indication in the U.S. While we have not provided guidance in Minjuvi, Pemazyre, and Iclusig, these products will present additional growth potential and generate further value to our business.Turning to dermatology, over the past year, we have successfully established our dermatology commercial franchise in the U.S. Given the product profile of Opzelura and the talented commercial team we have in place, we are confident in the potential for Opzelura and we expect peak sales to reach at least $1.5 billion in the United States in atopic dermatitis. While still very early in the launch of the Opzelura, the initial uptake has been strong and Barry will be providing details in his prepared remarks.Looking ahead into other areas of our portfolio, we are anticipating multiple regulatory decisions in 2022, including ruxolitinib cream in vitiligo in both the U.S. and Europe, Parsaclisib in three non-Hodgkin lymphomas indication in the U.S., as well as once-daily ruxolitinib late in 2022 or early 2023. This 2022 regulatory decision, which closely follows multiple product approvals in 2021, positions us well for further growth and diversification of our product revenues in the coming year.Our partners are also making headway, with Novartis, ruxolitinib is currently under review in Europe and Japan for acute and chronic GVHD and capmatinib is under review in Europe for non-small cell lung cancer. In addition, Lilly is planning to submit an sNDA to the FDA for baracitinib in alopecia areata by the end of this year. If approved, these opportunities will provide valuable growth to our royalty revenues, which have already surpassed $400 million during the first nine months of this year. As you have seen, 2021 has been an important year of commercial, clinical and regulatory success for Incyte.With that, I will hand over to Barry to cover the individual product performance. Thank you, Herve, and good morning, everyone. Jakafi sales grew 12% year-over-year to reach $547 million for the quarter and we are reiterating our full year guidance range of $2.125 billion to $2.170 billion. Jakafi was first approved -- was the first approved treatment in myelofibrosis, polycythemia vera, and steroid-refractory acute GVHD, and years later, remains the standard of care in each of these indications. Growth across MF, PV and GVHD continues to be strong. And as you can see on the left, new patient starts have returned to pre-pandemic levels. With patients staying on therapy longer and new patients coming in, the total number of patients on Jakafi continues to increase year-over-year. Myelofibrosis patients, the largest a portion of patients on Jakafi, comprised 45% of total patients, while polycythemia vera and GVHD patients accounts for 30% and 14% of total patients respectively. At the end of September, Jakafi was approved for its fourth indication for the treatment of steroid-refractory chronic GVHD. To put this recent approval into perspective, approximately 2,000 patients with graft-versus-host disease are currently using Jakafi, the majority of whom have acute form of the disease. There are over 14,000 patients in the U.S. living with chronic GVHD, of which half require therapy beyond systemic corticosteroids. We expect the recent approval to accelerate new patient starts with Jakafi. Turning to slide 8, Monjuvi sales grew 22% sequentially to $22 million in the third quarter with growth driven primarily by demand. We are seeing increase in the number of total accounts across both academic and community settings and there has been a swift shift toward adoption of Monjuvi earlier in the treatment paradigm. We now have a greater proportion of Monjuvi patients initiating therapy in the second line, which should result in patients experiencing longer and more durable responses, leading to a longer duration of therapy. Feedback from healthcare professionals continues to be positive with efficacy, duration of response, and safety being the key drivers of adoption. HCP awareness of Monjuvi's differentiated profile continues to increase and the L-MIND three-year results have been well received by the physician community. As patients continue to return to the office and as our reps continue to educate healthcare professionals on the clinical profile of Monjuvi, we are confident in our ability to build on this improving momentum. Turning to slide 9, we are very excited to receive the approval of Opzelura, the first FDA approved topical JAK inhibitor for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis. Prior to launch, we had identified 11,000 dermatologists and high priority allergists, the top 20% of which are responsible for nearly 80% of atopic dermatitis prescriptions. Our patient assistance programs are in place to help reduce barriers to access for Opzelura and our negotiations with payers are advancing well. To date, we have made significant progress with our stakeholders in the launch of Opzelura. Since our launch on October 11, our field-based representatives have actively engaged with 76% of our target prescribers and have conducted 8,500 HCP calls in the first three weeks of launch, of which 90% are being conducted in person. We're also receiving a significant amount of interest in Opzelura from patients, and in the first two weeks of launch, we have approximately 61,000 unique website users and this number continues to climb, further highlighting the level of engagement from patients. There were over 1,500 patient registrations for our co-pay card program. And lastly on the payer front, our discussions with PBMs, which include the top three who account for nearly 80% of commercially insured patients in the U.S., have been very positive as they realize the value proposition of Opzelura. As a result, we expect to secure broad coverage in Q1 of next year. In the meantime, during this contracting period, we have multiple efforts underway to ensure patients are able to access their medication. Although it is still early in launch, our efforts are translating into the first signs of a very successful launch. As you know there are limitations to the accuracy of script data, it is important to note that IQVIA's capture rate of prescriptions are under-representative of actual demand, especially in the initial weeks of launch. Over time, the capture rate is expected to continue to improve. There are two different metrics that we're using to track performance consisting of new brand -- new-to-brand Rxs and 867 data. New Rx data, shown on the left, captures the patients who are either new to the market or have switched to Opzelura. In the first two weeks of launch, there have been close to 1,000 new-to-brand prescriptions, with nearly two-third of scripts coming from patients who were previously on topical corticosteroid therapy. On the right hand side, we are showing 867 data, which is the number of units of Opzelura 60-gram tubes that our wholesalers are shipping to pharmacies. While 867 data doesn't translate directly into scripts, we believe it captures demand appropriately, given the low level of inventory retail pharmacies typically hold for specialty dermatology products. Pharmacies order Opzelura when a prescription is received and approved by the patient's insurance or processed through our patient access programs. In its third week of launch, 1,115 tubes of Opzelura were shipped by wholesalers, bringing the total shipped since launch to over 2,200. Based on early data, we are now tracking toward 300 plus units shipped in the first four weeks of launch. Now, I'll turn the call over to Steven for a clinical update.Steven H. Stein -- Executive Vice President and Chief Medical OfficerThank you, Barry, and good morning, everyone. The third quarter brought numerous achievements on both the clinical and regulatory fronts. Starting with the three recent regulatory approvals, Minjuvi was approved in Europe for second line diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in August. In September, Opzelura was approved in the United States for mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis and Jakafi was approved in the United States for second line chronic graft-versus-host disease.In addition to these regulatory milestones and successes, we presented pivotal data from our Phase 3 TRuE-V studies of ruxolitinib in vitiligo at the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology. The full data set highlighted the significant improvements in facial and total body repigmentation seen in vitiligo patients after treatment with ruxolitinib cream. Also presented at EADV was positive pivotal data for baricitinib, our partnered product with Eli Lilly in alopecia areata. These data show that treatment with once-daily baricitinib 4-grams was superior to placebo in achieving significant scalp hair regrowth at 24 weeks in adults with severe alopecia areata.We also announced a global collaboration with Syndax Pharmaceuticals, which is pending regulatory clearance to develop and commercialize axatilimab, an anti-CSF-1 receptor monoclonal antibody for chronic graft-versus-host disease and other fibrotic diseases. Lastly, we recently announced the acceptance of the Marketing Authorization Application for the European Medicines Agency for ruxolitinib cream in vitiligo and yesterday, we announced that the FDA accepted the NDA for parsaclisib in three types of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.We received priority review for parsaclisib in two of the indications, including for relapsed or refractory marginal zone lymphoma in adult patients who have received at least one prior anti-CD20-based regimen, and for mantle cell lymphoma in adult patients who have received at least one prior therapy. The PDUFA date for these two indications is April 30, 2022. There will be a standard review for parsaclisib in relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma in adult patients who have received at least two prior systemic therapies, with the PDUFA target action date of August 30, 2022.Let me remind you the efficacy across non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. In relapsed or refractory marginal zone lymphoma, response rate seen and independently reviewed were 57% with a duration of response and PFS not yet reached. In mantle cell lymphoma, this was a 71% response rate with a duration of response of nine months and a PFS of 11.1 months. And in relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma, it was a 75% overall response rate with a duration of response of 14.7 months, and a PFS of 15.8 months. All this data is with the once-daily regimen of 2.5 milligrams. Remember, this drug was designed to avoid hepatotoxicity associated with first generation PI3 kinase delta inhibitors and thus we have seen low rates of liver toxicity with less than a 5% rate of grade 3 ALT and AST elevations. In addition cases of serious diarrhea and colitis were manageable and reversible.Turning to the next slide, the clinical development of parsaclisib in hemolytic anemia continues to progress with the Phase 3 study expected to start by the end of this year. The study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of parsaclisib versus placebo, with the primary endpoint of durable hemoglobin response at week 24. Patients must have a diagnosis of primary warm antibody autoimmune hemolytic anemia, hemoglobin levels of 7 to 10 grams per deciliter, and a FACIT-F score of less than or equal to 43. This program represents another significant opportunity to address an unmet medical need, where there are currently no approved therapies for patients.Moving to our LIMBER development program, we have multiple studies ongoing looking to improve upon the standard of care in myelofibrosis, polycythemia vera and graft-versus-host disease. We expect data and our regulatory action for a few of these programs by the end of 2022, including the NDA submission for the once-daily formulation of ruxolitinib. We also recently entered into a collaboration with Syndax for axatilimab, an anti-CSF-1 receptor monoclonal antibody, which is currently being evaluated as a monotherapy in third line chronic graft-versus-host disease. In addition, we will have the opportunity to evaluate axatilimab as a combination therapy with our JAK inhibitors with the ultimate goal would be to arrive at a safe and effective combination that could lead to a steroid-free regimen for chronic graft-versus-host disease.Turning to dermatology and ruxolitinib cream in vitiligo, the Phase 3 TRuE-V data presented at EADV showed meaningful superiority to vehicle with 30% of patients achieving a facial-VASI 75 at week 24, which is in line with our Phase 2 results. As a reminder, facial-VASI 75 response in the Phase 2 trial continued to improve with ruxolitinib cream treatment with an over 51% response rate at week 52. We expect the 52-week data from the TRuE-V pivotal studies to be available in 2022. We are extremely encouraged by these positive results and the impact ruxolitinib cream may have for patients living with vitiligo in the United States and Europe. The MAA was recently validated by the European Medicines Agency and the U.S. sNDA is in progress.Turning to slide 18 and an update on our dermatology programs. We continue to focus on developing our dermatology pipeline with ruxolitinib cream and INCB54707, an oral selective Janus kinase-1 inhibitor. Multiple studies are ongoing with ruxolitinib cream in atopic dermatitis, including TRuE-AD3, a pivotal trial in atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients. In addition to our TRuE-V program in vitiligo, we are also looking at 707 in a Phase 2 study in patients with non-segmental vitiligo with the body surface area of greater than or equal to 8%. Additional studies for 707 are currently underway in other indications, including two Phase 2 trials in hidradenitis suppurativa and prurigo nodularis. We look forward to updating you on these programs next year.In closing, we had a very successful quarter with the number of clinical and regulatory accomplishments, including three approvals: the FDA acceptance of an NDA for parsaclisib as a treatment for three types of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, and the EMA acceptance of the MAA for ruxolitinib cream as a treatment for vitiligo. Later this week we invite you to join an Analyst and Investor Call to discuss our oral PD-L1 program, including data for 86550, which is accepted for presentation at the SITC Annual Congress on November 13.With that, I would like to turn the call over to Christiana for the financial update.Christiana Stamoulis -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Steven, and good morning, everyone. Our total product and royalty revenues for the third quarter were $778 million, representing a 25% increase over the third quarter of 2020. Total product and royalty revenues for the quarter are comprised of net product revenues of $547 million for Jakafi and $48 million for other hematology oncology products. Royalties from Novartis of $95 million for Jakavi and $3 million for Tabrecta and royalties from Lilly of $87 million from Olumiant.The 12% year-over-year growth in Jakafi net product sales reflects higher patient demand across all indications and a continued recovery of new patient starts as we continue to emerge from the COVID-19 pandemic. The tripling of the Olumiant royalties is due primarily to the use of Olumiant for the treatment of COVID-19. Per our agreement with Lilly for global net of sales of Olumiant for the treatment of COVID-19, we are entitled to receive royalties equal to the base double-digit rates applicable to all global net product sales, plus an additional 13% royalty.Moving on to our operating expenses on a GAAP basis, ongoing R&D expenses of $331 million for the third quarter increased 11% from the prior-year period, primarily due to the progression of our pipeline. Our SG&A expense for the quarter of $191 million increased 58% from the prior year quarter, primarily due to our investments related to the establishment of the new dermatology commercial organization in the US and the related activities to support the launch of Opzelura for atopic dermatitis. Our collaboration loss for the quarter was $9 million, which represents our 50% share of the U.S. net commercialization loss for Monjuvi. This is comprised of total net product revenues of $22 million and total operating expenses, including COGS and SG&A expenses of $40 million. Finally, our financial position continues to be strong as we ended the quarter with approximately $2.3 billion in cash and marketable securities.Moving on to our guidance for 2021, we are reiterating our revenue, COGS, R&D, and SG&A guidance for the year. We remain confident in our full year guidance for Jakafi based on our continued recovery of new patient starts and the approval in steroid-refractory chronic GVHD.Operator, that concludes our prepared remarks. Please give you instructions and open the call for Q&A.