  OperatorGood morning. My name is Grace Lacra, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Merck & Co. Q4 sales and earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Thank you. I would now like to turn the call over to Peter Dannenbaum, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Peter Dannenbaum -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Grace, and good morning. Welcome to Merck's fourth quarter 2021 conference call. Speaking on today's call will be Rob Davis, president and chief executive officer; Caroline Litchfield, chief financial officer; and Dr. Dean Li, president of Merck Research Labs. Before we get started, I'd like to point out a few items. You will see that we have items in our GAAP results, such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. You should note that we've excluded these from our non-GAAP results and provide a reconciliation in our press release. I would like to remind you that some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provision of the U.S.Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If our underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our SEC filings, including Item 1A in the 2020 10-K, identified certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. During today's call, a slide presentation will accompany our speakers' prepared remarks. The presentation, today's earnings release, as well as our SEC filings are all posted to the investor relations section of Merck's website. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Rob. 

 



Rob Davis -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Peter. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining today's call. 2021 has been a year of significant achievement and meaningful progress for Merck in the face of what has been a challenging environment for all of us. We deliver on our strategic priorities and took important steps to set a foundation for success in 2022 and beyond. We achieved strong operational performance, accelerated our broad pipeline, including molnupiravir, completed the spin-off of Organon and acted on key strategic business development activities. We enter 2022 with strong momentum and are pleased to reflect this in our initial revenue and EPS guidance. We continue to evolve with a more focused, more efficient and faster growing company, with an increased urgency to bring forward innovations to address critical unmet needs. This remains the core of our strategy to benefit the patients we serve and, in turn, create long-term value for all stakeholders, including our shareholders. Our business achieved strong revenue and earnings growth. Total revenues increased 24% in the quarter and 17% for the full year. Commercially, we have executed extremely well across all of our key performance drivers, including KEYTRUDA, GARDASIL and animal health. We delivered initial molnupiravir shipments to customers around the world and following the FDA emergency use authorization that was granted in late December made meaningful progress toward our commitment to the U.S.

 



 government. Our dedicated teams worked diligently, including through the holiday season, to deliver 1.4 million courses of therapy to the United States, United Kingdom and other countries by year-end. Throughout 2021, we invested in the discovery, development, production and commercialization of medicines and vaccines, furthering the long-term sustainability of our business, all while delivering meaningful operating leverage and strong EPS growth. In total, 2021 was a year of strong execution of our strategic priorities across all fronts: operationally, commercially, clinically, and financially. As we look at 2022 and out to 2025 and beyond, we expect to achieve continued strong growth. Our oncology portfolio will benefit from the uptake of numerous recent approvals and the expected launch of many additional indications, including in earlier lines of therapy. Underlying global demand for GARDASIL remains robust, and further growth will be realized through the investments we are making to increase manufacturing capacity. And our animal health business remains very well positioned to grow faster than the market well into the future. Overall, we expect another year of strong revenue growth in 2022. While we will continue to make investments on our pipeline, we are confident that we can achieve a leveraged P&L and significant long-term operating margin expansion. Longer term, we are intensely focused on successfully navigating the headwind created by likely biosimilar competition to KEYTRUDA at the end of the decade. We aspire to grow through and beyond this period. But at the very least, we will look to minimize the headwind and shorten the time it takes to return to strong growth. We have multiple levers to achieve this task, driving sustained growth well into the next decade. First, we intend to strengthen our leadership in oncology broadly and leverage that position for sustained long-term success. We've done an excellent job of establishing KEYTRUDA as a foundational therapy, and we intend to maximize its opportunity and patient impact. In addition, we have an expanding portfolio of commercial and developmental oncology assets beyond KEYTRUDA, which offer meaningful growth opportunities beyond 2028. Second, we have many important franchises beyond oncology that we expect can drive durable growth into the next decade, including GARDASIL, which we believe can potentially double by 2030, as well as our pneumococcal portfolio and our animal health business, to name a few. Third, we expect to generate very strong cash flow, which we intend to deploy into value-enhancing business development to augment our pipeline and bring additional drivers of longer-term growth. And fourth, we will advance our internal pipeline and the opportunities we see in vaccines, cardiometabolic, neuroscience and other disease areas. We are making extensive investments in discovery research as well, which we believe will be the source of longer-term innovation. As part of our commitment to provide more transparency into these efforts, we will host an investor event focused on our cardiovascular portfolio and pipeline in the spring. In addition to accelerating our internal pipeline, as I noted, a key part of our strategy will be to deploy our cash flow toward value-enhancing business development. We will continue to be appropriately aggressive in pursuing compelling external innovation, and we will supplement our pipeline with an approach that is science-led, but portfolio informed. Last year's acquisitions of Pandion and Acceleron are good examples of our approach. We are taking calculated risks, and we'll continue to focus on creating value in areas of unmet need. We have the operational capabilities, financial capacity, scientific prowess, and sufficient runway before the end of the decade for business development to play an important role in our goal of achieving long-term sustainable growth. While we have a strong track record of business development, we know we need to do more. Finally, we've taken further steps to integrate important environmental, social and governance goals into the core of our business. In December, we completed the inaugural issuance of a $1 billion sustainability bond. We intend to use the net proceeds to support projects and partnerships in the company's priority ESG areas and to contribute to the advancement of United Nations Sustainability Development Goals. We've also acted to accelerate global access for molnupiravir through our groundbreaking access strategy, including a recent agreement with UNICEF for up to 3 million courses of therapy to supplement supply available for distribution in low- and middle-income countries. In addition, this morning, we announced plans to host our initial ESG investor event on February 23. We believe that strong performance across key ESG metrics aligns well with Merck's core values and mission, and we look forward to providing insights into our commitment to this space. Now, before I turn the call over to Caroline, I want to take a moment to recognize Frank Clyburn. Following 14 years of significant contributions, Frank will be leaving Merck to become CEO of IFF. I want to thank Frank for the strategic vision and operational excellence he has provided in helping establish Merck as a global leader in oncology and for his strong leadership of our human health business. We wish Frank and his family all the best as he embarks on his new endeavor. While Frank will be missed, we are well positioned to continue our strong momentum with the deep and talented team we have in place, and we expect to announce new leaders shortly. With that, I'll pass it over to Caroline to provide details into the performance of our business, as well as our financial results and outlook. Caroline?Caroline Litchfield -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Rob. Good morning. 2021 was a year of exceptional performance for our business. We drove robust top line growth of 17% and bottom-line growth of 33%. Our teams performed with agility and executed with excellence, despite challenges from the ongoing pandemic. We are also very proud of the significant efforts to bring monotherapy to patients worldwide. These results reinforce the confidence we have in our science-led strategy and in our outlook for strong growth. We will continue to invest in our portfolio and pipeline, as well as in business development to maximize growth over the near and long term and to create value for patients and shareholders. Now, turning to our fourth quarter results. Total company revenues were $13.5 billion, an increase of 24% or 23% excluding the impacts of foreign exchange. Molnupiravir contributed $952 million in revenue or nine percentage points of growth. The remainder of my comments will be on an ex-exchange basis. Our human health business continued its strong momentum, growing 23%, driven by our key pillars and contribution from molnupiravir. Our animal health business also delivered robust performance, with sales increasing 8%, driven by companion animal products. Now, turning to the fourth quarter performance of our key brands. In oncology, KEYTRUDA grew 16% to $4.6 billion, reflecting continued robust global demand. In the U.S., KEYTRUDA continues to demonstrate durable momentum across all key tumors and is benefiting from the recent launches in neoadjuvant and adjuvant triple-negative breast cancer, renal cell carcinoma and in cervical cancer. KEYTRUDA continues to extend its strong IO top leadership and maintain its position in non-small cell lung cancer, capturing eight out of 10 eligible new patients, despite competition. Outside the U.S., KEYTRUDA growth continues to be driven by lung cancer and the ongoing launches in head and neck and RCC. We continue to expand our reach into earlier lines. We were very pleased to receive two additional adjuvant approvals this quarter in RCC and in melanoma. With these approvals, KEYTRUDA has now received five indications in earlier-stage cancers. If approved, we also look forward to expanding into adjuvant lung cancer, following the encouraging top line results from the KEYNOTE-091 trial. We are confident that, along with strong clinical data, KEYTRUDA's reputation and familiarity among physicians will be a benefit as we move into early stage disease. Lynparza remains the market-leading PARP inhibitor. Growth of 33% was driven by our breast cancer indication and continued uptake of the most recent indications, including prostate. Our expected launch in a broader prostate population based on the PROpel trial represents a significant opportunity. Lenvima sales grew 31% driven by RCC and endometrial cancer in the U.S. We have seen very encouraging early trends in new patient share following the launch of KEYNOTE-581 in first line RCC. We are also excited by the recent launch of WELIREG for patients with certain VHL-associated tumors. WELIREG continues to generate strong interest among scientific leaders, providers and patients and is off to a promising start. We expect to extend its reach to broader RCC indications in the future. Our vaccines portfolio again delivered strong growth driven by GARDASIL, which grew 50% to $1.5 billion and nearly 40% for the full year. Outside the U.S., robust growth was driven by strong underlying demand across all key geographies, particularly China, as well as increased supply. This growth more than offset the decline in the U.S. due to timing of CDC purchases, as well as the replenishment of the CDC stockpile in the fourth quarter of 2020. Also, impacting HPV immunization levels was the prioritization of COVID vaccinations in younger age cohorts. Underlying global demand for GARDASIL remains strong, as it is increasingly being recognized as a vaccine that can help prevent certain HPV-related cancers in both female and male. In our hospital acute care portfolio, BRIDION sales grew 24% driven by increased usage of neuromuscular blockade reversal agents and BRIDION's growing share within the class. Our animal health business delivered another quarter of strong growth, with sales increasing 8%. Companion animal sales increased 26% driven by global demand in parasiticides, including the BRAVECTO line of products, as well as vaccines. Recall that we experienced changes in distributor purchasing patterns, which negatively impacted last year's results. Livestock sales were flat, as strong global demand for poultry and swine products was offset by a difficult year-over-year comparison due to the recording of an extra month of sales relating to Antelliq in the fourth quarter of 2020. I will now walk you through the remainder of our P&L, and my comments will be on a non-GAAP basis. Gross margin was 74.8%, a decrease of 0.2 percentage points. As a reminder, we share profits from molnupiravir equally with our partner, Ridgeback, which is reflected within cost of sales and reduces our gross margin. This impact was largely offset by favorable mix and lower discards. Operating expenses increased 3% to $5.3 billion as we continued to invest behind our growth drivers and pipeline. Other expense was approximately $50 million. Our full year tax rate was 11.2%, which is lower than our prior guidance due to a more favorable mix of income and expense than previously estimated. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 4.3% reflects the impacts of the lower full year rate, as well as foreign tax credit. Taken together, we earned $1.80 per share. It is worth noting that our underlying operating results were toward the upper end of our expectations and the contributions from molnupiravir, and the favorable tax rate resulted in EPS that exceeded our prior guidance. Turning now to our 2022 non-GAAP guidance. We believe the strong underlying momentum in our business will continue, and we will also benefit from increased molnupiravir revenues. We expect revenue to be between $56.1 billion and $57.6 billion, representing growth of 15% to 18%, including a negative impact from foreign exchange of approximately 2% using mid-January rates. Our gross margin is expected to be approximately 74%. We expect operating expenses to grow at a mid- to high single-digit rate driven in part by the addition of R&D expenses related to the Acceleron acquisition. In other income and expense, we expect expense of approximately $350 million. We assume a full year tax rate between 13% and 14%. We assume 2.53 billion shares outstanding. Taken together, we expect EPS of $7.12 to $7.27, reflecting growth of 18% to 21%. This range includes the negative impact from foreign exchange of approximately 1% using mid-January rates. As you consider your models, there are a few areas to focus on. First, on molnupiravir, we are excited by our regulatory authorizations to date and believe molnupiravir will be an important treatment option to combat the ongoing pandemic. We have announced a number of supply and purchase agreements, providing approximately 10 million courses of therapy. Based on agreements now in place, we are confident in our ability to achieve $5 billion to $6 billion in revenues in 2022, weighted to the first half of the year. Next, we expect continued strong growth of KEYTRUDA, which should benefit from increased expansion in ex-U.S. market and the continued ramp of recent launches globally. On GARDASIL, we continue to expect robust demand, along with increased supply to drive strong year-over-year growth, albeit not at the same pace as in 2021. In the U.S., increased uptake in the mid adult cohort, as well as catch-up from missed doses due to the pandemic will drive growth. Outside the U.S., we continue to expect strong demand across regions particularly in China and from a relaunch in Japan. Global HPV vaccination levels remain low, and we continue to believe GARDASIL's opportunity for growth is significant. In pneumococcal, we are excited by the recent launch of VAXNEUVANCE in adults and the potential opportunity for approval in pediatric, which represents a larger portion of the pneumococcal market. We expect some offset however from the impact to U.S. sales of PNEUMOVAX 23 as the market continues to shift toward newer pneumococcal conjugate vaccines. We also expect to experience modest LOE pressure on JANUVIA in the second half of 2022, as we lose exclusivity in some of the larger ex-U.S. market. For animal health, given our broad and innovative portfolio, we are well-positioned to again drive above-market growth in 2022 and beyond. Finally, as we look out to 2025, we remain confident in our ability to achieve strong revenue growth driven largely by our derisked portfolio and operating margin in excess of 43%. Our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged. First, we will continue to prioritize investments in our business and pipeline to drive near- and long-term growth. We also continue to augment our internal pipeline through strategic business development. We were active in 2021, including the acquisitions of Acceleron and Pandion, and we intend to pursue additional value-enhancing opportunities. We remain committed to the dividend with the goal of increasing it over time. To the extent we have excess cash, we will return it to shareholders through share repurchases. To conclude, our growth in the fourth quarter underscores our confidence in the underlying strength of our business and in the global demand of our innovative medicines and vaccines. We remain in a position of financial and operational strength, and our continued execution will enable us to deliver on that promise now and well into the future. With that, I'd now like to turn the call over to Dean.Dean Li -- President of Merck Research Labs Thank you, Caroline. Good morning, everyone. I will provide a brief summary of notable achievements in 2021 and then report on progress since the last earnings call. In 2021, we made meaningful advancements across our broader pipeline with approvals for new molecular entities, including VAXNEUVANCE, VERQUVO and WELIREG, and an EUA for molnupiravir. We also made strides in women's cancers with U.S. regulatory approvals for KEYTRUDA in cervical, endometrial and triple-negative breast cancer. In total, we received more than 30 approvals and filed more than 20 NDAs and SBLAs in the United States, EU, Japan and China. In 2022, we look to build on this progress and momentum. I will now cover notable regulatory milestones and clinical updates for our molnupiravir , oncology, pneumococcal, HIV and cardiovascular programs. As we enter the third year of the pandemic, the Omicron variant continues to reap havoc on our communities and healthcare systems. In the United States alone, we are now seeing approximately 2,000 deaths a day. Vaccines and treatment options have the potential to help combat this pandemic. Since the first authorization for molnupiravir by the U.K. in November, we have received authorizations in nine additional countries, including an emergency use authorization in the United States and a special approval for emergency in Japan. In addition, other countries have provided authorizations to our voluntary license holders. Findings from the MOVe-OUT clinical trial published in the New England Journal of Medicine at the end of last year showed molnupiravir significantly reduced hospitalization or death in adult patients most in danger of progressing to severe disease. Importantly, for physicians and patients, approximately 90% fewer deaths were seen in those taking molnupiravir. These results reinforce that molnupiravir provide an important oral treatment option for certain adults at high risk for severe illnesses. The director of the United States CDC has indicated the need to prioritize therapeutic interventions for people with the highest risk of progression, such as those with certain comorbidities. We believe molnupiravir has a low propensity for drug-drug interactions, make it a meaningful and important option for appropriate patients with COVID-19 who are receiving treatments for underlying conditions, such as heart disease, hypertension and diabetes, and for those with impaired liver or kidney function, consistent with local recommendations. To date, this pandemic has consisted of successive waves of SARS-CoV-2 variants, most recently, Omicron. Last week, we announced data from multiple independent studies indicating that molnupiravir is active against the Omicron variant in vitro. Each surge comes with distinct public health and disease characteristics and corresponding treatment and prevention challenges. The potential threat of rapidly emerging variants reinforces the need for treatment options with high barrier to resistance that target ever solutionarily conserved aspects of viral biology. Recognizing the importance of an oral antiviral, we committed to manufacturing molnupiravir and have it ready for supply to patients within the U.S. upon emergency use authorization. As Caroline noted, we were able to fulfill that promise and ensure delivery of this important treatment. We are working with governments and partners around the globe to stay ahead of the curve and to further Merck's contribution in fighting this pandemic. Next, we continue to fortify our position in oncology. Several recent milestones highlight our strategy of targeting earlier-stage cancers where there is potential for improved outcomes by reducing risk of recurrence. We received FDA and European Commission approval for KEYTRUDA in the adjuvant setting for renal cell carcinoma and FDA approval for certain stages of melanoma. In RCC, approval was based on KEYNOTE-564. KEYTRUDA is the first and only immunotherapy treatment option for certain patients at intermediate high or high risk of recurrence in the adjuvant setting. And in melanoma, the approval was based on KEYNOTE-716 and provides for the adjuvant treatment of patients 12 years and older with stage 2b and 2c disease following complete resection. Both approvals provide patients with important new options shown to help reduce the risk of recurrence. Similarly, we recently announced a positive finding from the KEYNOTE-091 or PEARLS study, evaluating KEYTRUDA as adjuvant treatment for patients with stage 1b to 3a non-small cell lung cancer following surgical resection. At an interim analysis, the trial met one of its dual primary endpoints, demonstrating a statistically significant improvement in disease-free survival in all comers when treated with KEYTRUDA compared to placebo. The trial will continue to analyze DFS in patients whose tumors express high levels of PD-L1, the other dual primary endpoint, which did not meet statistical significance at the time of the planned interim analysis, as well as overall survival, a key secondary endpoint. We are continuing to make progress in women's cancer based on data from the phase three OlympiA trial. The FDA granted priority review for Lynparza for the adjuvant treatment of patients with BRCA-mutated HER2-negative, high-risk early breast cancer previously treated with chemotherapy, either before or after surgery. We anticipate FDA action during the first quarter of 2022. Moving to the broader portfolio. The FDA issued a complete response letter for the new drug applications for gefapixant and have requested additional information related to the measurement of efficacy. There were no safety concerns for gefapixant, and we will continue with the FDA to discuss next steps as we look to address the significant unmet need in patients with chronic cough. In Japan, we are pleased to announce the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare approved Lyfnua, the trademark for gefapixant, for adults with refractory or unexplained chronic cough. Momentum continues in our pneumococcal disease program, following the U.S. approval in July 2021. The European Commission approved VAXNEUVANCE in individuals 18 years of age and older in December. Also, in December, we announced the FDA granted priority review of our supplemental application for VAXNEUVANCE in the pediatric setting. Importantly, VAXNEUVANCE incorporates serotypes 22F and 33F and provides robust response on other key disease-causing serotypes, like serotype 3, therefore, offering the potential to prevent additional invasive disease in children. We anticipate regulatory action in the spring of this year. Merck has a proud legacy of HIV research, and we remain committed to those impacted by this virus. Following the announcement of the FDA clinical hold for ongoing trials evaluating islatravir, we are working to understand the data and the principles of the finding. We believe in the potential of the nucleoside reverse transcriptase and translocation inhibitor mechanism for both the prevention and treatment of HIV, and we intend to share updates in the future. Looking across our broader pipeline. As Rob noted, in the fourth quarter, we completed the acquisition of Acceleron. Its lead candidate, sotatercept, is an excellent complement to our pipeline and has the potential to provide a novel approach to treating pulmonary arterial hypertension. The integration is proceeding according to plan, and the phase three program is on track. We plan to provide further details on our cardiovascular pipeline at an investor event in the spring. In closing, 2021 was a tremendous year where we demonstrate our ability to advance both our internal and external pipelines. We are well positioned to continue our momentum into 2022 with a dual focus, becoming the leading oncology company by 2025 and sustaining that position beyond 2028, while also extending our impact across other therapeutic areas. I look forward to providing further updates in the coming year. Now, I turn the call back to Peter.Peter Dannenbaum -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Dean. Grace, would you please start the Q&A? [Operator instructions] Thank you. 