
OperatorWelcome to the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals' First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Mary and I'll be your operator for today's call.[Operator Instructions]Please note that this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Justin Holko, Vice President, Investor Relations. You may begin.

 



Justin Holko -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you, Mary. Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening to everyone listening around the globe. Thank you for your interest in Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and welcome to the first quarter 2021 conference call. An archive of this webcast will be available on our website.Joining me on the call today are Dr. Leonard Schleifer, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer; Dr. George Yancopoulos, Co-Founder, President and Chief Scientific Officer; Marion McCourt, Executive Vice President and Head of Commercial; and Bob Landry, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.After our prepared remarks, we will open the call for Q&A. I would also like to remind you that remarks made on today's call include forward-looking statements about Regeneron. Such statements may include, but are not limited to those related to Regeneron, and its products and business, financial forecast and guidance, development programs and related anticipated milestones, collaborations, finances, regulatory matters, payer coverage, and reimbursement issues, intellectual property, pending litigation, and other proceedings and competition. Each forward-looking statement is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those projected in that statement.

 



A more complete description of these and other material risks can be found in Regeneron's filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2021, which we filed with the SEC earlier today. Regeneron does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.In addition, please note that the GAAP and non-GAAP measures will be discussed in today's call. Information regarding our use of non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP is available in our financial results press release, which can be accessed on our website. Once our call concludes, Bob Landry and the IR team will be available to answer further questions.With that, let me turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Len Schleifer.Leonard S. Schleifer -- Co-Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Justin, and thank you to everyone joining today's call.We were off to a strong start in 2021, again delivering double-digit growth on the top and bottom lines. I'm immensely proud of all that Regeneron continues to accomplish in the fight against COVID, and for patients, suffering from a variety of diseases. Our performance highlights the continued evolution, diversification and durability of our business, as we enter a new phase of growth and new product launches. Strong performance begins with differentiated products that deliver real value for patients.Starting with EYLEA, global net sales were nearly $2.2 billion, growing 17% compared to the prior year. In the US, sales grew 15%, reflecting continued positive momentum and execution on our strategy. We are confident in the EYLEA business and expect it will remain a key growth driver for Regeneron, for years to come. We are also very pleased with the performance of Dupixent in the quarter, where global sales approached $1.3 billion and grew 48%. The brand is now annualizing sales in excess of $5 billion. Yet, we believe there remains considerable room for further market growth and penetration in atopic dermatitis, asthma, and Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis. With several additional potential indications in Phase 3 trials, such as eosinophilic esophagitis and COPD, we are still in the early days of realizing the full potential of this unique pipeline and product.In oncology, we are making steady progress with Libtayo, as global net sales reached $101 million and grew 35% from the prior year. Importantly, in February, we secured two new FDA approvals for Libtayo in basal cell carcinoma and in non-small cell lung cancer, which we anticipate will help fuel a new period of growth for this product, that is the foundation to our oncology strategy. While still in very early days with these new launches, we are seeing encouraging signals on a variety of leading indicators from thought leaders, prescribers, payers, and patients.And last but not least, we were able to deliver significant Phase 3 outcome data for our REGEN-COV program, aimed at treating and preventing COVID-19 infections. As George will outline momentarily, we have now shown that our antibody cocktail dramatically reduces hospitalizations or death in non-hospitalized COVID-infected patients and reduces symptomatic infections when given as a preventative measure. We are seeking to update our Emergency Use Authorization to reflect these new data and uses, as well as the lower 1.2 gram dose.Thinking longer term for REGEN-COV, we see an ongoing global need for treatment and chronic prevention of COVID disease. Despite high rates of vaccination, it's estimated that tens of millions will remain unvaccinated in the US alone, and of those who are vaccinated, significant numbers will not mount a protective response such as those, who are immunocompromised or immunosuppressed.It is important to recognize Regeneron's and the biopharmaceutical industry at large response and ongoing actions in combating COVID-19. Breakthrough vaccines and treatments are having a profound impact on the health and well-being of people in the United States and around the globe. In addition, safe and effective vaccines and treatments are enabling economic recovery. All of these critical benefits come as a result of the investments that have been made in technologies over decades by both the public and private sectors. These profound effects highlight the importance of a healthy biopharmaceutical industry that fully incentivizes innovation, so that new solutions to emerging disease can rapidly be invented and deployed.We've also learned that these extraordinary approaches to preventing and treating COVID-19 can work only if people actually received the vaccines or drugs. For example, an internal health economic analysis projected that tens of thousands of lives in the United States could be saved over the next several months if REGEN-COV were fully deployed and given to all appropriate patients, who are diagnosed with COVID-19 and at high risk for hospitalization or death. And this is a case, where cost to patients is not an issue, as the government is providing the drug, free of charge.Clearly, we have to better understand why a drug that has demonstrated overwhelming evidence for its ability to reduce hospitalizations or death by 70%, is an ample supply, has been endorsed by the NIH, has been authorized under an EUA by the FDA, and is free of charge to patients, is not being taken full advantage of.Regeneron is committed to collaborating with our healthcare partners to take optimum advantage of the REGEN-COV cocktail potential health benefits. Overall, we are pleased in all that Regeneron has accomplished in the first three months of the year and look forward to continued momentum and progress across our diverse pipeline in the months to come.Now, I will turn the call over to George.George D. Yancopoulos -- Co-Founder, President and Chief Scientific OfficerThank you, Len. With COVID-19 still in the headlines, I will start with our monoclonal antibody treatment, the REGEN-COV cocktail. We recently reported data from a large Phase 3 outcomes trial in the outpatient setting, confirming that REGEN-COV reduce the risk of hospitalization or death by 70%, with both the 2.4-gram and the lower 1.2-gram doses. We are pleased that based on these data, the NIH guidelines were updated in early April to include a strong recommendation for monoclonal antibody combinations to treat outpatients with mild or moderate COVID-19, as defined by the EUA criteria.We also recently reported data from a large two-part Phase 3 trial of REGEN-COV, with Part A in the preventative setting and Part B in recently infected patients. In Part A of the trial, REGEN-COV prevented 81% of symptomatic COVID-19 infections, with 93% prevention after the first week. A supportive study in healthy volunteers that explored chronic dosing showed a similar 92% prevention of infection. Notably, these results were achieved with a convenient subcutaneous formulation.Chronic prevention with our antibody cocktail may prove to be critical in the ongoing battle against this virus. Despite high rates of vaccination, it is estimated that tens of millions of Americans will remain unvaccinated, thus at risk of future infection. In addition, it is estimated that millions of Americans will not mount an adequate response to vaccines. For example, immunocompromised individuals or organ transplant patients, or who suffer from certain cancers such as lymphomas, leukemias, and myelomas, or in immunosuppressant therapies for their autoimmune diseases, myerobic candidates for chronic prevention using our antibody cocktail.Part B of this Phase 3 trial, in recently infected patients, showed that the subcutaneous administration of the 1.2 gram-dose was also effective in reducing symptomatic disease and shortening disease duration. We are anticipating the existing EUA will be augmented based upon the above data to include the 1.2 gram REGEN-COV dose to allow the cocktail to be used for prevention and to include the subcutaneous formulation for ease of use. We believe the current data is supportive of a potential formal BLA approval by the FDA.I would like to remind everyone that outside of the United States, where some countries have an even more ongoing dire need for COVID-19 medicines, our partner Roche is rapidly expanding availability of the treatment. Last year, we anticipated that certain variants were likely to emerge and therefore designed our current cocktail to be active against these variants. Experimental evidence suggests that our cocktail is indeed accurate against all current variants of concern. Similarly, in anticipation of future variants that may emerge, we are bringing additional antibodies to the clinic shortly.Moving on to EYLEA. A recent NIH-sponsored Protocol W trial, in non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy patients, confirmed results of our own PANORAMA study. After two years, EYLEA reduced vision-threatening complications by 68% compared to a group of patients, who delayed treatment. A recent Regeneron follow-up analysis in the similar design PANORAMA trial than the delaying treatment resulted in three times as many patients, suffering prolonged vision loss, compared to those receiving preventative EYLEA treatment during a two-year period. A similar analysis has not yet been conducted for Protocol W.Protocol W is the second study in diabetic retinopathy, showing benefit of a less-frequent EYLEA dosing regimen; and we are planning on filing to expand the US EYLEA label by adding the 16-week dosing interval for appropriate patients in the second half of this year. By year end, we are expecting first data from the Phase 2 study, testing a high dose of EYLEA in wet AMD. From these data, we can expect early reads on anatomic differences and drawing between the higher and lower dose at 8-week and potentially 12-week intervals. While the study date will not be definitive on durability measures, the Phase 2 study will help provide insights on what we might expect from the Phase 3 studies, which are testing dosing intervals out to 12 weeks and 16 weeks.Importantly, in the 106 patients dosed in the open label Phase 2 study so far, we haven't seen any concerning safety signals. The Phase 3 studies in wet AMD and in DME are expected to be fully enrolled by the second half of this year. Moving on to Dupixent in our immunology and inflammation portfolio. Dozens of recent presentations at key dermatology meetings highlight the ever-increasing scope of Dupixent's efficacy and safety in patients as young as six years old, including rapid itch relief, sustained improvement in disease severity, and overall quality of life. Importantly, Dupixent is not immunosuppressant and we have not seen an increased risk of serious infections with Dupixent. This mounting role of data and physician experience fortifies our belief that Dupixent will remain the preferred choice for multiple Type 2 inflammatory diseases.In the first quarter, we submitted data to support the use of Dupixent in children 6-years to 11-years old with moderate-to-severe asthma. The BLA Supplement has an FDA action date of October 21 of this year. A similar application has been submitted in the EU. We prudently announced positive data in the Part A part of our Phase 3 trial in eosinophilic esophagitis and Part B of this trial is fully enrolled.In addition, two Phase 3 trials of Dupixent in Type 2 COPD are actively enrolling patients. Our complementary program with our anti IL-33 antibody, Itepekimab, in a different group of COPD patients, former smokers is progressing with both Phase 3 trials now enrolling. We believe that this broad COPD program, including Dupixent and Itepekimab, will provide real benefit for many patients.Turning now to our novel approach to treat allergy by using cocktails of monoclonal antibodies to directly bind and inactivate the allergen. These cocktails are designed to act immediately and to be long-lasting, and to replace currently cumbersome approaches to allergy desensitization that involve years of multiple weekly injections. The anti-Betv1 antibody cocktail binds and inactivates the Betv1 allergen that causes birch pollen allergy, one of the most common, seasonal allergies that occur in the spring.Following Phase 2 data showing immediate and long-lasting effects against allergen challenge, we initiated a Phase 3 study and results are expected later this year. Assuming success in the current study, we are planning to conduct a second Phase 3 study during an upcoming birch pollen season. Regarding our similarly designed Feld1 antibody cocktail for cat allergy, Phase 2 data were presented earlier this year at a AAAAI Meeting, showing that single administration of the antibody cocktail prevented early asthma reactions in allergic patients and prevented lung function decline upon cat allergen exposure, when compared to placebo. Following this positive data update, the first Phase 3 trial in cat allergy is planned for later this year. We are enthusiastic about these novel additions to our inflammation and immunology portfolio that could represent new groundbreaking ways to treat allergic diseases.Moving on to Libtayo in our oncology portfolio. In the first quarter, Libtayo was approved for the first-line treatment of certain patients with non-small cell lung cancer and for advanced basal cell carcinoma, each being crucial early milestones for our oncology strategy. In addition, a Phase 3 study of Libtayo in second-line cervical cancer was stopped early for an overwhelmingly positive overall survival benefit, first for any systemic treatment in these patients. These data will be shared in upcoming medical meeting and regulatory submissions are planned for this year.Additionally, we look forward to sharing expanded dataset of Fianlimab, our anti-LAG-3 program at the upcoming ASCO meeting. Fianlimab is being studied in combination with Libtayo in first-line melanoma. In the second half of this year, we anticipate results of an interim analysis for overall survival in our Phase 3 Libtayo lung cancer chemotherapy combination study.Moving on to our bispecific portfolio. In multiple myeloma, our BCMAxCD3 bispecific, for which we now hold exclusive development rights, is continuing through dose escalation and dose expansion. We expect to initiate new combination studies in earlier lines of multiple myeloma later this year. Regeneron is uniquely positioned to mix and match multiple modalities and targets, with the hope of increasing deep responses we are already observing with the CD3 bispecific. We are planning to add a co-stim bispecific to our arsenal of clinical stage multiple myeloma investigational therapies early next year.Moving to lymphoma. Responses to our CD20xCD3 bispecific, odronextamab, demonstrate increasing durability. Regarding the partial clinical hold on this program, we have agreed to a path forward with the FDA, submitted the updated protocol, and are expected to hear back on lifting the partial hold in the very near term. Enrollment of the follicular lymphoma and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma cohorts of the Phase 2 pivotal-intent trial should resume quickly thereafter. Additionally, testing of the odronextamab subcutaneous formulation will start later this year and the paired co-stim bispecific combination is also on track to initiate within the next 12 months.Regarding our solid tumor efforts with our bispecific, ovarian cancer is the first indication for which we are already clinically testing two different types of bispecifics for the appropriate tumor target MUC16. Dose escalation of our MUC16xCD3 bispecific is ongoing. We're hoping to share initial data next year, if not sooner. In the MUC16xCD28 co-stim study, patients are dosed in combination with Libtayo and dose escalation is ongoing. Combination of the CD3 and CD28 co-stim bispecifics targeting MUC16 will start later this year and it has the potential to be a game-changing strategy for treatment of these solid tumors.In prostate cancer, PSMAxCD28 is in dose escalation studies with Libtayo and we hope to share initial data next year or sooner. As seen in our other programs, we are planning on introducing a potentially complementary CD3 bispecific to the clinic later this year, rounding out a powerful and unique toolkit for prostate cancer currently considered unresponsive to immunotherapy.Regarding our early efforts in lung cancer and other solid tumors, our EGFRxCD28 co-stim bispecific is in dose escalation phase and patients are now being dosed in combination with Libtayo. Our METxMET bispecific antibody is in the dose expansion state. Recall that this study is enrolling non-small cell lung cancer patients with a broad selection of patients, including MET exon 14 gene mutations, gene amplification, and/or elevated MET protein expression.We believe our oncology portfolio is one of the most exciting in the field and has the potential to revolutionize the treatment of diverse difficult-to-treat cancers. Finally, I would like to highlight our capabilities regarding the Regeneron Genetic Center and our genetics medicines efforts. In addition to being able to discover and validate targets that we can address with our VelocImmune antibody platform, we are working with our collaborators to develop three additional platforms that have the potential to generate new classes of genetics-based medicines.First, gene editing. We are eagerly awaiting initial results from the first systemic-based CRISPR approach to the announced mid-year by our collaborator, Intellia. If positive, these results will validate this gene editing platform for a host of genetic targets, identified by the Regeneron Genetic Center and being investigated under our collaborations with Intellia.Second, we are also excited about our Alnylam collaboration with its validated siRNA platform approach that can similarly address complementary genetics targets. Our Alnylam target, ALN-HSD, directed to HSD17B13, a target discovered by the Regeneron Genetic Center, is now enrolling NASH patients. Additionally, we and Alnylam are collaborating a series of follow-on targets. While the technology is currently validated for liver-directed therapeutic approaches, we are set to extend to eye and central nervous system targets.Our third genetic medicines approach involves viral gene therapy delivery and is another approach of significant interest and excitement at Regeneron. Our first gene therapy program is in collaboration with Decibel, focusing on targeting the ear. We and Decibel are planning to enter the clinic with DB-OTO next year. In addition to the AAVs targeting the ear, we are developing a platform for use in multiple other tissues of interest.With that, I would like to turn the call over to Marion.Marion McCourt -- Senior Vice President, CommercialThank you, George. We're off to an exciting start in 2021. Our expanded commercial portfolio includes three recent product and indication launches, and we continue to grow our largest brands, EYLEA, Dupixent, and Libtayo, based on competitive and differentiated profiles.Beginning with EYLEA. First quarter global net sales grew 17% year-over-year to nearly $2.2 billion. In the US, EYLEA net sales grew 15% year-over-year to $1.35 billion, based on increased demand and a favorable comparison to the early weeks of the pandemic in the first quarter of 2020. EYLEA is capturing category growth and continues to be the preferred treatment option. In the branded anti-VEGF category, EYLEA has approximately 75% share and is approaching 50% of the combined branded and unbranded category. EYLEA is differentiated by the combination of its efficacy, safety, dosing flexibility and range of indications. In addition, physicians have considerable real-world experience with more than 40 million injections administered worldwide.Across the broader category, demand continues to improve in 2021, as patient flow normalizes and new patient volume grows. We are confident in our near- and longer-term outlook, based on favorable patient demographics, physician preference for EYLEA, growth opportunities in diabetic eye disease, and future opportunities with our high-dose clinical program.Turning to Libtayo. First quarter global net sales grew to $101 million, with US net sales of $69 million. The vast majority of first quarter sales were in cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, where Libtayo is the number one systemic treatment. We're excited by recent approvals in non-small cell lung cancer and basal cell carcinoma, or BCC, both of which represent meaningful growth opportunities for Libtayo. In April, we deployed our expanded and highly experienced field force across these indications to extend our Libtayo promotional impact.In lung cancer, we have heard from oncologists that Libtayo is highly competitive, based on the strength of our compelling clinical data and overall value proposition. Early launch indicators are encouraging with uptake evident at top academic and community-based practices. We're advancing formulary placement, securing favorable payer coverage decisions, and growing overall market awareness.Importantly, Libtayo was rapidly included in the NCCN Guidelines with a Category 1 preferred rating. The NCCN Guidelines have also been updated to include Libtayo in BCC as the Category 2A option. Libtayo is the only anti-PD1 approved in advanced disease for this indication. Early feedback has been encouraging as physicians are eager to prescribe Libtayo, based on its efficacy and tolerability.Hedgehog inhibitors, despite being used as first-line treatment, may not be suitable for patients for long term or repeat use. Libtayo is an important new care alternative for BCC patients. In summary, our lung and BCC launches are progressing according to plan and we are highly focused on ensuring that appropriate patients benefit from Libtayo.Turning now to Evkeeza, which was also approved in the first quarter of 2021, and is in the initial launch phase. Evkeeza represents a novel and effective treatment for patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia and is recognized by treating specialists as an improvement over the current standard of care. Patient demand is steadily building, with multiple patients already initiated on therapy.Moving to Dupixent. Global net sales in the first quarter were $1.26 billion, representing 48% growth compared to the prior year. In the US, broad-based growth across all approved indications generated net sales of $962 million, with the new patient starts now higher than pre-COVID levels. In atopic dermatitis, Dupixent's largest indication, prescribing continues to be strong across both moderate and severe disease, and across age groups, following our adolescent and pediatric launches. There is significant opportunity for continued growth, based on remaining unmet need among eligible patients. Dupixent is the number one dermatologist-prescribed biologic, based on the depth and breadth of its long-term efficacy and safety profile.Turning to asthma, where we are actively preparing to launch in pediatric patients as young as six years of age later this year. Among adolescents and adults, we continue to meaningfully expand the number of Dupixent patient initiations, driven by our extensive provider and patient educational efforts. In addition, demand is strong among ENTs and allergists for patients with nasal polyps.Dupixent is the fastest-growing biologic in respiratory disease in our approved indications, with substantial room for growth. I'd also like to highlight efforts supporting our antibody cocktail, REGEN-COV. In the first quarter, we recorded US net sales of $262 million under the first contract with the US government. REGEN-COV is currently authorized under an EUA in patients based on age and risk factors, which represent close to 40% of all adults diagnosed with COVID-19.We're focused on reducing bottlenecks and increasing utilization, particularly in states with high-infection rates. Efforts include direct support to key facilities, medical education about REGEN-COV, partnering with third-party stakeholders, and educating consumers on the availability of antibody treatments. As George mentioned, we're preparing for a potential update of the REGEN-COV EUA to include prevention, as we hope to be able to address an unmet need for millions of patients who may be candidates for ongoing preventative treatment. Preventative therapy may also be important for those, who have known COVID exposure and require very rapid protection.In summary, we delivered robust performance across our portfolio in the first quarter of the year. There is strong positive momentum from our in-line business, encouraging early signals from our recent launches, and substantial opportunity for continued diversified growth.Now, I'll turn the call over to Bob.Robert E. Landry -- Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Marion, and good morning and afternoon to everyone listening to the call. My comments today on financial results and outlook will be on a non-GAAP basis, where applicable. As Len stated, Regeneron is off to a strong start in 2021, as we continue to execute across the business, delivering double-digit top- and bottom-line growth in the first quarter.For the first quarter, total revenues grew 38% year-over-year to $2.5 billion, driven by growth in global EYLEA sales, increased Sanofi collaboration profitability driven by Dupixent, and sales of our REGEN-COV antibody cocktail. Diluted net income per share grew 50% year-over-year to $9.89 on net income of $1.1 billion. Excluding revenues related to REGEN-COV, Regeneron achieved 20% total revenue growth versus the prior year.As you heard from Marion, we completed our initial contract to supply REGEN-COV to the US government in the first quarter. Assuming that we secure an updated EUA for the 1.2 gram treatment dose, we expect to deliver at least 1 million doses of REGEN-COV at $2,100 per dose for our follow-on contract with the US government in the second quarter.I will now move to collaboration revenues, which were $754 million in the first quarter of 2021, compared to $528 million in the first quarter of 2020. Starting with the Bayer collaboration. Ex-US EYLEA net product sales reported to us by Bayer were $824 million for the first quarter of 2021, representing growth of 21% on a reported basis and 12% on a constant-currency basis, compared to the prior year. Total Bayer collaboration revenue was $323 million, of which, we recorded $309 million for our share of net profits from EYLEA sales outside the US.Total Sanofi collaboration revenue was $365 million in the first quarter. Our share of the profits from the commercialization of Dupixent and Kevzara was $261 million, which compares favorably to profits of $171 million in the prior year, driven by Dupixent. We recorded initial Roche collaboration revenues of $67 million for our share of gross profits from the distribution of the antibody cocktail by Roche outside of the US.Other revenue decreased to $50 million in the first quarter, compared to $63 million in the prior year. In 2021, we expect this line to be less than half of what we recorded in 2020, due to lower BARDA reimbursements for the Ebola and COVID-19 programs.Moving on to our operating expenses and starting with R&D. R&D increased 28% year-over-year to $673 million, primarily due to continued clinical development costs for our REGEN-COV antibody cocktail. Next, SG&A expense increased 16% year-over-year to $355 million. The year-over-year increase was driven by commercial investments for Libtayo, costs related to the roll-out of REGEN-COV, and higher employee-related expenses.Cost of goods sold increased versus the prior-year from $70 million to $173 million, due to REGEN-COV manufacturing costs and Praluent manufacturing costs in the US, which were recorded by Sanofi in the first quarter of 2020. Additionally, in other income and expense, we recorded $4 million of expense, compared to $25 million of income in the prior year. This is driven by interest expense related to our $2 billion debt issuance in August 2020 and lower investment returns on our existing cash and marketable securities.Finally, the effective tax rate was 10.5% in the first quarter of 2021. Included in this rate is the benefit achieved by a reduction in uncertain tax positions, liabilities related to the IRS audits of the 2015 and 2016 tax years.Shifting now to cash flow and the balance sheet. In the first quarter of 2021, Regeneron generated $553 million in free cash flow and ended the quarter with net cash and marketable securities of $5.1 billion. In the first quarter, we utilized $323 million of our $1.5 billion share repurchase authorization and we remain opportunistic buyers in the market.I would now like to provide select updates to our 2021 guidance. A complete summary of our latest full-year guidance is available in our press release, published earlier this morning. We are updating full-year 2021 guidance for COCM to be in the range of $660 million to $730 million. The lower guidance range is related to the timing of contract manufacturing of Praluent for Sanofi. We are also updating guidance for our 2021 non-GAAP effective tax rate to be in the range of 13% to 15%. The increase from prior guidance is driven by higher forecasted delivery of REGEN-COV under our second US government contract, which is taxed at the US statutory rate.In conclusion, Regeneron is off to a strong start in 2021 and continues to execute across all aspects of the business. We are well positioned for the remainder of 2021 and continue to make those investments necessary to ensure long-term growth.With that, I would now like to turn the call back to Justin.Justin Holko -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you, Bob. Mary, that concludes our prepared remarks. We'd now like to open the call for Q&A. With several callers in the queue and to ensure that we are able to address as many as possible, we will answer just one question from each caller, before moving to the next.Please go ahead, Mary.