
OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to AvalonBay Communities Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]Your host for today's conference is Mr. Jason Reilley, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Reilley, you may begin.Jason Reilley -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, April, and welcome to AvalonBay Communities Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Before we begin, please note that forward-looking statements may be made during this discussion. There are a variety of risks and uncertainties associated with forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially. There is a discussion of these risks and uncertainties in yesterday afternoon's press release as well as in the company's Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the SEC. As usual, this press release does include an attachment with definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures and other terms, which may be used in today's discussion. The attachment is also available on our website at www.avalonbay.com/earnings, and we encourage you to refer to this information during the review of our operating results and financial performance.And with that, I'll turn the call over to Tim Naughton, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AvalonBay Communities, for his remarks. Tim?Timothy J. Naughton -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerYes. Thanks, Jason, and welcome to our Q2 call. With me today are Ben Schall, Kevin O'Shea, Matt Birenbaum and Sean Breslin. For our prepared comments today, I'll start by providing some high-level comments on apartment marketing conditions and how the current operating and capital environment is shaping our actions, including our recent decision to enter new markets in North Carolina and Texas. Ben will provide a summary of second quarter results, including a detailed road map of results on a year-over-year and a sequential quarter basis. Sean will then elaborate on operating trends in the portfolio, where we've seen a robust recovery in fundamentals and performance since the first of the year. Matt will review performance in our development portfolio, including lease-up performance, and an overview of our first Kanso community located in Rockville, Maryland, where we completed construction this past quarter.

 



Kevin will then provide an overview of our outlook for Q3 and the full year. And lastly, Ben will provide some summary comments on how AVB is well positioned to deliver earnings and NAV growth as we look forward. Before turning to the deck, I thought I'd provide some perspective on what we're seeing in the markets and how it's shaping our actions in terms of operations and capital allocation. Since the first of the year, the recovery in the apartment market conditions has been dramatic. Effective move-in rents have fully recovered from the trough, up almost 20% over the last two quarters alone. And asking rents grew even faster, up over 20% since the beginning of the year and now stand at 8% above pre-pandemic peak. Concessions, which were significantly elevated last year, have fallen back to a modest level closer to what we experienced pre-pandemic.As you might guess, the speed and steepness of the recovery has been driven by very strong rental demand. In fact, Q2 traffic was up over 40% from last year. It continues to outpace last year despite very low levels of availability. The combination of strong traffic and low inventory propelled rental rates through Q2, and that has continued through July. While all regions and submarkets are improving and most are back to or near pre-pandemic levels, there's still a fair bit of variability across the portfolio. Specifically, suburban continues to outperform urban, Class A is outperforming Class B, and regionally, Southern California and our expansion markets of Southeast Florida and Denver outperforming the portfolio average, while the Bay Area continues to lag the average. In addition to strong apartment markets, the capital markets are also extremely healthy and constructive for apartment investment. The transaction, debt and equity markets are all wide open and are supporting strong growth in asset values as we've seen cap rates fall below 4% across most markets and submarkets over the last few quarters.Based on the strong market sentiment, we expect capital flows to remain healthy over the foreseeable future. With this operating and capital backdrop, we have shifted to offense and have increased our planned investment activity for the year by almost $1 billion between new development starts and acquisitions. In addition, in our release, we announced our intent to enter the Raleigh and Charlotte markets in North Carolina as well as Austin and [Technical Issues] markets in Texas. As we discussed over the last two to three years, we've been evaluating expansion into markets that we believe will disproportionately benefit from the growth in the knowledge economy and domestic migration, particularly in those markets that figure to see some migration from our existing legacy markets.We'll have more to share with you about our growth plans in these markets over the next couple of quarters. And lastly, as we mentioned last quarter, after completing a comprehensive midyear reforecast, we are now providing full year outlook in addition to quarterly guidance. While risk remains in our outlook, including the impact of the virus and the Delta variant, the exact timing of eventual phaseout of eviction moratoria across our markets and the receipt of any rent relief payments from state and local governments, we believe we have enough clarity to provide a meaningful perspective with respect to our operating performance for the rest of the year.

 



With that, now let me turn it over to Ben, who will discuss Q2 results.Benjamin W. Schall -- PresidentThank you, Tim. Slide four highlights our Q2 results and activity. And while we meaningfully exceeded our guidance for Q2 with core FFO of $1.98 versus guidance at the midpoint of $1.90 per share, our year-over-year core FFO figures were down 11.2% for the quarter and 14.8% year-to-date, reflecting the disruption that we've seen in our business over the last 12 months. Notably, and reflecting the strong recovery that Tim emphasized, rental revenue increased on a sequential basis, turning positive for the first time since March of 2020 with a 90 basis point increase on a GAAP basis and 170 basis points on a cash basis from Q1 to Q2. As Sean will delve into in more detail, rental rates improved during each month of the quarter with continued growth in July.Our development platform also continues to create meaningful shareholder value. We completed $385 million of development in the quarter and close to $1 billion through the first half of 2021. These developments are primarily suburban and are benefiting from the renter demand and increasing rents we're experiencing across our suburban communities. For our completions in the second quarter, the initial projected stabilized yield is 6.4%, providing roughly 250 basis points of spread to the sub-4% stabilized cap rates we're seeing in the asset sale market today. These completed projects, along with others that are in lease-up, also provide a meaningful incremental boost to earnings growth, as Matt will discuss in more detail. We also started $580 million of new developments in Q2 and are on track to meet our target of $1.2 billion of new starts in 2021, which we increased last quarter from our initial target of $750 million of new starts.During the quarter, we raised $540 million of capital through dispositions at an average cost of capital of 3.7%. By match funding our development activity, primarily with these disposition proceeds, we in turn are able to reduce the capital cost risk associated with the earnings and NAV accretion as we execute on our development pipeline over the coming years. Slide five breaks down the components of our rental revenue change on a year-over-year basis with lower lease rates over the last 12 months and the amortization of concessions being the largest drivers of the decline. As it relates to concessions, at the end of Q2, we had a total of $29 million of previously granted concessions still to be amortized in our same-store pool over the coming quarters.However, concession usage has declined by roughly 85% since Q4 2020 from $1,900 per move-in to just above $300 in July. Slide six provides the factors leading to our increase in rental revenue from Q1 to Q2, with a turn to the positive being driven by higher occupancy and an improvement in uncollectible lease revenue. At a portfolio level, uncollectible lease revenue remains elevated with bad debt at roughly 3% versus a more normalized 50 to 60 basis points with the expectation that we'll continue to see elevated bad debt levels until eviction moratoria are behind us. Before turning it over to Sean for further context on our operating performance, Slide seven illustrates our strong momentum in the form of like-term effective rent change, which turned positive in June and now stands at 5% in July.With that, I'll turn it to Sean.Sean J. Breslin -- Chief Operating OfficerAll right. Thanks, Ben. I thought I'd share a few slides on portfolio rent trends, both overall and across different markets and submarkets. Overall, we've seen a meaningful acceleration in the positive rent trends we spoke about during our Q1 call. On Slide eight, you can see that our average move-in rent value has grown by roughly 18% since the beginning of the year, including a 13% increase since just April, and is now consistent with the peak rent levels we achieved in mid-2019. Moving to Slide 9, improved performance has been broad-based with every region experiencing a material increase in average move-in rent over the past seven months. If you look at our July move-in specifically, rents are now equal to or greater than the 2019 peak in every region except Northern California, which remains roughly 11% below peak.The timeline for a full recovery in Northern California will, in part, be based on when major tech employers call people back to work. The hybrid work policies adopted by major employers will have -- will certainly have some impact on where tech workers want to live. Silicon Valley will very likely remain one of the world's leading innovation centers for years to come. Turning to Slide 10 to address suburban and urban performance trends. The average July move-in rent for our suburban portfolio was roughly 3% above the peak we achieved in 2019. In our urban portfolio, while demand has returned in a meaningful way, the average rent in these submarkets fell the most throughout 2020 and is still down about 7.5% from peak 2019 rents.As it relates to the urban portfolio, we expect performance to continue to improve as people are called back to the office, urban universities resume on-campus learning and the quality of the environment starts to look and feel more like pre-pandemic conditions. Turning to Slide 11. Our average asking rent, which is representative of the published rent for available inventory, has increased 24% since the beginning of the year and is currently about 8% above the mid-2019 peak. Our suburban submarkets, which represent about 2/3 of portfolio revenue, are leading the recovery. The average asking rent in our urban submarkets is basically back to the 2019 peak and, as I mentioned previously, is expected to continue to grow as those environments more fully reopen over the next few months.And moving to Slide 12, this chart depicts the trajectory and spread between our average asking and move-in rents. As I mentioned a few slides ago, the average portfolio movement rent has increased roughly 18% this year but trails the increase in average asking rent, which is up 24%. The average dollar spread between the two, which averaged 12% for the month of July, is wider than the 4% to 5% we have seen historically and is representative of the capacity available to grow move-in rents over the next couple of quarters. Additionally, if we see a seasonal adjustment in asking rents the last few months of the year, something we have not yet experienced this year, there's plenty of room for asking rents to soften a bit and still grow move-in rents.With that summary, I'll turn it to Matt to address development and portfolio trading activity. Matt?Matthew H. Birenbaum -- Chief Investment OfficerAll right. Great. Thanks, Sean. Turning to our current lease-up communities, you can see on Slide 13 the same positive trends that we're seeing in the stabilized portfolio. We're achieving rents $155 above initial underwriting on the seven communities that are currently in lease-up, which is lifting the stabilized yield on those investments to 6.1%, generating substantial value creation relative to current cap rates, which are at or below 4% across our footprint. This is really a remarkable turnaround in our development portfolio, which just a few quarters ago had rents and yields modestly below initial underwriting and continues to demonstrate our long track record of delivering outsized risk-adjusted returns from our development and construction capabilities.One development that we wanted to highlight this quarter is shown on Slide 14, which is the first completion of our latest brand, Kanso, located at the Twinbrook Metro station in Rockville, Maryland. Kanso was born out of customer insight research, which was telling us that there's a large underserved segment of residents that are looking for a new high-quality apartment in a transit-served or infill location but without all the extra bells and whistles provided in typical Class A new construction. By focusing our investment on the apartment home itself and removing common area amenities that these customers do not value, like pools, fitness centers and lounges, we are able to save on both upfront capital and ongoing operating and capex costs, which in turn allow us to provide a meaningful discount on the rent as compared to a fully programmed Avalon offering at the same location. Kanso leverages technology to provide a primarily self-service experience for residents and prospects with very limited on-site staffing supported by our centralized call center and a design with low maintenance needs to deliver on the brand promise to live simply without sacrifice.We're excited the market has embraced the concept with Kanso Twinbrook leasing up successfully at a strong pace at rents above pro forma and look forward to growing this new brand via additional development opportunity in the future. Turning to Slide 15, we continue to see tremendous demand in the asset sales market and completed six wholly owned dispositions in the second quarter at a weighted average cap rate of 3.7%. The assets sold were predominantly in the Northeast region with more than 60% of the proceeds coming out of the Greater New York area and were older than average for our portfolio with an average age of 25 years, allowing us to continue to further our portfolio allocation goals to reduce exposure to some of our legacy markets while also minimizing our capex profile. And by redeploying this capital into new development starts of $580 million this quarter at projected yield of 5.7%, we're match funding new growth at highly accretive margins.And with that, I'll turn it over to Kevin to go over our earnings guidance for the year.Kevin O'Shea -- Chief Financial OfficerGreat. Thanks, Matt. On Slide 16, we provide our financial and operating outlook for the third quarter and for full year 2021. For the third quarter, using the midpoint of our guidance ranges, we expect core FFO per share of $1.96. On a sequential basis, our third quarter estimate reflects a sequential decline in core FFO of $0.02 per share from the second quarter. This sequential decrease in core FFO per share is driven primarily by an increase of $0.05 per share in same-store residential revenue and a $0.03 per share increase in lease-up NOI, offset by a seasonally driven increase in same-store residential operating expenses of $0.06 per share and a $0.03 per share decrease in community NOI as a result of recent disposition activity.On a year-over-year basis, for our same-store portfolio using the midpoint of our ranges, we expect NOI to decrease by 3% for the third quarter driven by an 80 basis point reduction in same-store residential rental revenue and a 3.5% increase in same-store residential operating expenses. For the fourth quarter, our full year earnings guidance implies core FFO per share of $2.13, which would represent a $0.17 or 8.7% sequential increase from the third quarter estimate. This expected sequential increase in earnings in the fourth quarter is primarily driven by a continued increase in same-store residential rental revenue by a seasonally expected decline in same-store residential operating expenses and by further NOI growth in our lease-up portfolio. For our full year 2021 guidance, we expect core FFO per share of $8.02 at the midpoint of our range. And for our same-store residential portfolio, again using the mid-point ranges and looking at growth on a year-over-year basis, we expect NOI to decrease by 6.2% for full year 2021 driven by a 3.2% decrease in revenues and a 3.3% increase in operating expenses.Turning to our updated investment and capital plan, the combination of a strong recovery in revenue and earnings growth and attractive access to the capital markets has prompted us to pivot to offense and pursue increased development and acquisition activity as reflected in our current investment and capital plan on Slide 17. For development, we now anticipate starting $1.2 billion in new projects this year, up from our original plan of $750 million, and we expect NOI for new development communities undergoing lease-up to be about $50 million this year at the midpoint, an increase of $5 million from our original outlook. For capital activity, we now anticipate a busier year, with total capital uses for development, redevelopment, acquisitions and debt repayments of $1.8 billion in 2021. This represents an increase of nearly $1 billion from our original outlook and is driven by increased acquisition activity for the year and an expected early repayment later this year of $450 million in unsecured debt that is scheduled to mature in September 2022.In terms of capital sourcing, our current plan contemplates meeting our capital needs through a combination of unsecured debt issuance and additional asset sales, although the sources we ultimately tap are subject to change based on changes in capital market conditions or our actual capital uses. Turning now to Slide 18 and our continuing efforts in the area of corporate responsibility or ESG, we are pleased to report that we recently released our 10th Annual Corporate Responsibility or ESG Report, reflecting our long-standing commitment to this part of our business. As highlighted in the report, we see measurable progress on our science-based emission reduction targets, primarily due to our investments in on-site solar generation and efforts to improve building efficiency.We're also proud of our commitments to the communities in which we do business. These funding to our nonprofit partners to serve those in need during the pandemic. We continued our important national partnership with the American Red Cross focused on disaster preparedness and response, and we initiated a new partnership with the National Urban League designed to engage with them on our diversity and inclusion efforts and provide support to their mission. All these efforts continue to be recognized externally with the CDP rating us in the A band and the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark, or GRESB, rating us #1 in the multifamily sector both globally and in the United States. In addition, NAREIT awarded us their highest honor of sustainability performance. Further, our associates remain highly engaged as reflected in our engagement scores that are in the top quartile on this important metric. And finally, our customers weighed in, and we are pleased to be number one in online customer reputation.And with that, I'll turn it back to Ben for his concluding remarks.Benjamin W. Schall -- PresidentThanks, Kevin. Turning to our key takeaways on Slide 19, we're very encouraged by the continued improvement in our operating fundamentals and believe our portfolio is well positioned for additional growth as reflected in the growth assumptions incorporated into our second half guidance. Near-term trends in our suburban portfolio continue to look very strong, and we are hopeful that our urban communities, which have been lagging the rest of the portfolio, should benefit over the coming months with a fuller return to offices and universities. As Tim mentioned at the start, we also expect that our Class A communities will continue to outperform as higher income residents and prospects benefit from the economic recovery and seek out high-quality living environments. As discussed, our development acumen and pipeline continue to be a differentiator for us, our projects in lease-up, primarily in the suburbs, are benefiting from strong renter demand, and we've been able to quickly scale up our development activity at attractive yields relative to stabilized cap rates.As we look forward, we expect the breadth of our development expertise will allow us to shift capital to growing markets and evolve our product offering to meet the needs of our targeted customer segments. We also see our operating platform and our investments in innovation as a differentiator. In addition to the expense reductions and the margin opportunities we discussed last quarter, our technology-forward approach positions us to be able to create de novo offerings, such as Kanso, bringing together the best of our operating, innovation, brand and development expertise as we evolve our offerings and create a better way to live. As we head forward, we're excited about our new growth in Raleigh-Durham, Charlotte, Dallas and Austin, in addition to our continued growth in Southeast Florida and Denver, bringing us to a total of six expansion markets.We're actively negotiating on opportunities in these new expansion markets and expect to grow through acquisitions, our own development and through the funding of other developers, where we own the asset upon stabilization, similar to the growth strategies we've successfully utilized to grow our presence in Southeast Florida and Denver. This multipronged approach also allows us to invest capital over different time horizons with acquisitions of existing communities being naturally the most immediate and our own development being medium term in duration. We look forward to sharing our long-term goals and portfolio allocation objectives for these markets with investors over the coming months. Finally, thank you to the entire AvalonBay organization for their commitment and leadership on ESG, where our recently issued 10th Annual Responsibility Report highlighted our continued ESG leadership position across the wider REIT sector.And with that, we'll open it up for questions.