  OperatorGood day, and welcome to Dow's Q1 2022 earnings call. [Operator instructions] Also today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Pankaj Gupta. Please go ahead, sir.Pankaj Gupta -- Director, Investor Relations

 



 Good morning. Thank you for joining Dow's first-quarter earnings call. This call is available via webcast, and we have prepared slides to supplement our comments today. They are posted on the Investor Relations section of Dow's website and through the link to our webcast. I am Pankaj Gupta, vice president of Dow Investor Relations, and joining me today on the call are Jim Fitterling, Dow's chairman and chief executive officer; and Howard Ungerleider, president and chief financial officer. Please read the forward-looking statement disclaimer contained in the earnings news release and slides. During our call, we will make forward-looking statements regarding our expectations or predictions about the future. Because these statements are based on current assumptions and factors that involve risks and uncertainties, our actual performance and results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements.Dow's Forms 10-Q and 10-K include detailed discussions of principal risks and uncertainties which may cause such differences. Unless otherwise specified, all financials, where applicable, exclude significant items. We will also refer to non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and other associated disclosures is contained in the Dow earnings release and in the slides that supplement our comments today as well as on the Dow website. On Slide 2, you will see our agenda for the call. Jim will begin by reviewing our first quarter and operating segment performance. Howard will share our outlook and modeling guidance as well as how Dow's competitive advantages are driving resilient earnings and cash flow while positioning the company for value growth. Jim will then provide an update on how our in-flight actions raise our underlying mid-cycle EBITDA above pre-pandemic levels while also advancing on our path to zero carbon emissions.

 



 Following that, we will take your questions. Now let me turn the call over to Jim. Jim Fitterling -- Chairman and Chief Executive Chairman Thank you, Pankaj. Beginning on Slide 3, we entered our 125th year with global scale, a differentiated portfolio, unmatched feedstock and derivative flexibility and a track record of operational excellence, all of which enable us to continue to deliver more resilient earnings and cash flow in a variety of economic and geopolitical environments and positions us to deliver mid-cycle earnings above pre-pandemic levels. This is reflected in our first-quarter results. Team Dow delivered top and bottom-line growth, both year over year and sequentially. We capitalized on end-market demand strength across the breadth of our diverse portfolio and mitigated the impacts of rising raw material and energy costs. Year-over-year sales growth was 28% with gains in every operating segment, business, and region. Sequentially, sales increased 6%, driven by gains in performance materials and coatings and packaging and specialty plastics. Local price was up 28% year over year, reflecting gains in all operating segments, businesses, and regions.

 



 Price was up 2% sequentially, led by silicones and polyurethanes. Volume increased 3% year over year with gains in all operating segments and in the United States and Canada. Sequentially, volume was up 5%, reflecting strong demand for silicones and packaging applications. And we continued our digitalization drive, marking an important milestone for digital sales in the first quarter as we reached a $1 billion monthly run rate. Operating EBIT increased $865 million compared to the year-ago period with gains in all operating segments. Despite rising raw material and energy costs, we effectively leveraged our industry-leading feedstock and derivative flexibility in a very dynamic environment. And higher operating rates compared to the impact of Winter Storm Uri in the year-ago period enabled us to capture better end-market demand. We continue to generate significant cash flow of $1.6 billion in the first quarter, up $1.8 billion year over year due to increased earnings and no voluntary pension contributions in the current period. Shareholder remuneration totaled $1.1 billion in the quarter, including $513 million through our industry-leading dividend as well as $600 million in share repurchases. Additionally, we recently announced a new $3 billion share repurchase program. This was a direct result of our performance and our balanced and disciplined approach to capital allocation with attractive shareholder remuneration. Before I address our operating segment performance, on behalf of the Dow team, our thoughts are with the people of Ukraine and their family and friends around the world. Dow continues to prioritize the safety and security of our colleagues in Ukraine and Russia by providing evacuation support, financial assistance, and shelter as well as humanitarian aid to refugees in the region. From a business perspective, our presence in Ukraine and Russia represents approximately 1% of annual sales and a much smaller percentage on the bottom line. We fully support and are complying with sanctions implemented against Russia, and have significantly reduced our operations and stopped all investments in the country, and are only supplying limited essential goods. To help diversify Europe's energy supply, we also recently announced that Dow is taking a minority stake in the Hanseatic Energy Hub, which is developing a new zero carbon emissions LNG import terminal. The terminal will be colocated on Dow's site in Stade, Germany, and will satisfy up to 15% of Germany's current natural gas demand, helping enable a stable, cost-effective, and sustainable supply of energy to Europe in support of the region's economy, Dow's business interests and our communities and our employees. Moving now to our operating segment performance on Slide 4. In the Packaging and specialty plastics segment, operating EBIT was $1.2 billion, up $6 million year over year with operating EBIT margins down 400 basis points as price increases in the United States and Canada, and Latin America were partly offset by rising raw material and energy costs in all regions. Strong end-market demand drove volume up 4% year over year. Sequentially, operating EBIT was down $208 million, and operating EBIT margins declined by 390 basis points primarily due to higher raw material and energy costs in Europe. Moving to the Industrial intermediates and infrastructure segment. Operating EBIT was $661 million, up $335 million year over year as operating EBIT margins increased 560 basis points, primarily due to strong price momentum in both businesses and volume gains of 1%. Sequentially, operating EBIT was up $66 million, and operating EBIT margins increased 150 basis points as strong prices and lower planned maintenance activity in the core business offset higher raw material and energy costs. And finally, the performance materials and coatings segment reported operating EBIT of $595 million compared to $62 million in the year-ago period. Operating EBIT margins increased more than 1,600 basis points due to strong price gains and an 8% volume increase on improved supply availability and robust stand for silicones in personal care and high-performance buildings and demand for architectural coatings. Sequentially, operating EBIT improved by $300 million on price gains and lower planned maintenance activity. I'll now turn it over to Howard to review our modeling guidance for the second quarter.Howard Ungerleider -- President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jim. Turning to Slide 5. In the second quarter, we expect ongoing underlying demand strength across both consumer and industrial end markets. Despite elevated inflation, consumer spending continues to grow and balance sheets remain healthy with household debt service levels at some of the lowest levels in the last 30 years. Industrial activity also remains robust with global manufacturing PMI continuing to point toward expansion. We continue to monitor dynamics impacting the operating environment, including geopolitical activity, inflation, COVID, and the pace in which global supply chain constraints are easing. Our talented team and advantaged operating model continued to position us well to navigate these impacts by leveraging our global footprint, scale, and differentiated portfolio, combined with our cost-advantaged and suture feedstock and derivative flexibility. In packaging and specialty plastics, our order book remains strong, and we expect continued demand strength for packaging applications. Elevated feedstock costs, particularly for naphtha as well as tighter supply as we enter another turnaround season for the industry in the U.S. Gulf Coast and Europe should continue to support prices globally. That will begin a turnaround at our cracker and aromatics facilities in Louisiana, which are anticipated to be $125 million headwind in the quarter. We will continue to leverage our advantaged shale positions in the Americas and our leading feedstock flexibility in Europe to help mitigate these costs. In industrial intermediates and infrastructure, we expect strong demand in industrial and energy end markets, coupled with the seasonal increase in construction and infrastructure activity in the quarter. Higher raw material and energy costs and tight supply and demand balances are expected to provide additional price momentum across our key value chains. We're also beginning turnarounds at our Stade and Terneuzen facilities, which are anticipated to be a $100 million headwind sequentially. In performance materials and coatings, we're seeing robust consumer demand strength across our major end markets, including home and personal care, infrastructure, and electronic applications. We continue to monitor the recent pandemic-related lockdowns in China and will remain agile to proactively manage the near-term impacts, particularly on local supply chains. In the coatings sector, value chain inventories remain tight, and we anticipate strong seasonal uplift in architectural demand as the Northern Hemisphere enters paint season. All in, we expect the second quarter to be in line with the prior quarter, excluding the total $225 million impact from turnarounds. We have also provided updated full-year modeling input in the appendix of this presentation. Most notably and supported by our recent buyback announcement, we have lowered our year-end share count assumption to approximately 715 million shares as we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder remuneration. Moving to Slide 6. Our first-quarter results once again demonstrate our competitive advantages, which have enabled Team Dow to navigate the dynamic macro environment, capture end-market growth, and continue to elevate our earnings potential. Our broad global reach with local presence, which includes the diversified manufacturing footprint is structurally advantaged and enables low-cost positions in each region. About 65% of our production capacity is based in the Americas where we have a cost advantage from abundant shale-based feedstocks. We also have industry-leading propane flexibility in Europe, ethane and natural gasoline advantages from our joint venture partners in the Middle East and global sourcing capability to support Asia with ethane advantage supply. Additionally, we are continuously leveraging our industry-leading feedstock and derivative flexibility to optimize margins. Region by region and furnace by furnace, we are able to mitigate higher raw material and energy costs. This is particularly relevant in today's environment where Dow has more than two to three times more propane flexibility than our European peers. And our derivative flexibility allows us to optimize our product mix to capture differentiated prices and margins compared to our peers. At the same time, our consumer-led portfolio and track record of innovation enables us to grow in attractive market verticals of packaging, infrastructure, consumer, and mobility, expanding our share and growing with our customers, particularly for sustainability-led applications. Growth across our end markets is expected to remain strong over the next several years with distinct demand drivers of sustainability, efficiency, and connectivity, all of which are enabling growth rates above GDP. We're capturing these opportunities with innovative new products across our portfolio that not only feature advantage polyolefins, but also silicones, acrylics, cellulosics, polyurethane systems, alkoxylates, and elastomers. For example, our DOWSIL carbon-neutral sealants increase design flexibility of smart buildings to reduce the environmental impact of new construction as infrastructure investments continue to ramp. The RENUVA Mattress Recycling Program converts used mattresses into raw materials for new building and home care applications. Our ENGAGE photovoltaic polyolefin elastomers offer improved performance and extended life for solar applications. And Dow's patented ACCUTRACE Fuel Marker technology was recently selected by the European Commission to help facilitate fraud prevention, especially critical for monitoring fuel flows from sanctioned supply sources. Altogether, these advantages enable resiliency, growth, and support higher mid-cycle earnings compared to pre-pandemic levels. These advantages have been key to our 125-year history and will remain relevant for decades to come. With that, I'll turn it back to Jim.Jim Fitterling -- Chairman and Chief Executive Chairman Thank you, Howard. Now turning to Slide 7. We have a clear road map to advance our decarbonize and grow strategy, which we expect will deliver greater than $3 billion in additional run-rate EBITDA, while reducing carbon emissions by 30% by 2030. This begins with our continued investment in renewable energy, asset efficiency improvements, and innovative carbon-efficient technologies like electric cracking and carbon capture. Licensing our technologies will further expand our value pools, decarbonizing our assets and the industry. For example, our FCDh unit will reduce CO2 emissions by as much as 20% compared to other leading PDH technologies. And as we advance our electric cracking project in collaboration with Shell, we will incorporate even more renewable energy into our network. In Alberta, we're progressing engineering and development activities for the world's first net-zero carbon emissions, ethylene, and derivatives cracker complex. This year, we plan to complete our partner agreements, which will put us on track for regulatory approval and a final investment decision in 2023. We're also advancing plans to reduce CO2 emissions at sites in both Europe and in the Americas. A key part of our decision to advance profitable projects will be ensuring competitive subsidies and commercial contracts before final investment decision. These projects will provide the low to zero-emission products that our customers increasingly demand to reduce their own carbon footprint. This is another demonstration of Dow's leadership in the transition to a sustainable world while driving earnings growth. Turning to Slide 8. To that end, our near-term actions to decarbonize, grow the company, and continue to improve our return on capital are well underway. In 2022, our in-flight growth programs remain on track to deliver a run rate of more than $300 million in underlying EBITDA with a focus on targeting downstream and sustainability-led applications across all operating segments that will generate strong returns. In packaging and specialty plastics, our FCDh unit in Louisiana is on track to start up in the fourth quarter of this year and will contribute more than $75 million in run-rate EBITDA with a return on invested capital greater than 15%, giving us the key proof point to accelerate the licensing of our technology. In industrial intermediates and infrastructure, our alkoxylates capacity and other efficiency investments are also on track to start up this year and in total, are expected to generate more than $50 million in run-rate EBITDA with returns greater than 20%. In order to support the accelerating demand growth across pharma, cleaning, and energy sectors, today, we're proud to announce another series of alkoxylate investments in the United States and Europe. These expansions maintain our current carbon emissions levels and are backed by supply agreements with leading consumer brands across fast-growing end markets. All combined, these investments represent a 70% increase in our industry-leading downstream alkoxylates capacity over the next several years, targeting high-value applications where we're delivering 10% to 15% annual growth rates. Lastly, in performance materials and coatings, we're also executing a series of incremental downstream debottlenecking projects with more than 20 projects expected to be completed this year, collectively contributing approximately $100 million in run-rate EBITDA with return on invested capital of more than 20%. All in all, by 2025, we're projecting a cumulative underlying EBITDA improvement of approximately $2 billion, driven by projects like incremental high-margin polyethylene and functional polymers capacity to serve growing demand for flexible packaging, debottlenecking projects to enhance our mix toward polyurethane systems serving mobility and consumer applications, and new capabilities to formulate differentiated silicones, including silicone adhesives for next-gen electronics, mobility, and infrastructure applications. At the same time, we continue to decarbonize and deliver on our sustainability commitments by increasing our use of renewable energy, optimizing our assets to be more carbon-efficient, and driving continuous emissions reductions throughout our global asset base. Just one example, we will reduce our CO2 emissions by more than 350,000 tons, which is more than 15% of our 2025 emissions reduction target when we replace end-of-life steam and gas turbines at our Plaquemine, Louisiana site, with less capital intensive, higher efficiency and lower operating cost systems. Overall, we expect these near-term actions to deliver $2 billion in additional underlying earnings while reducing carbon emissions by approximately 2 million metric tons by the year 2025. And importantly, we'll do this while maintaining capex within D&A and continuing to target a return on capital of greater than 13% across the economic cycle as we invest in higher-return, lower-risk projects across the enterprise. Turning to Slide 9. Dow has unique and resilient competitive advantages, a clear strategy to decarbonize and grow earnings, cash flow, and return on capital combined with top quartile operational and financial performance. Our annual benchmarking update is published in the appendix of this presentation and demonstrates once again that we continue to deliver better results relative to our peers across many key financial performance metrics, including top quartile EBITDA margins, return on capital, free cash flow yield, shareholder remuneration, and debt reduction. Our commitment to industry-leading cash generation and shareholder remuneration have resulted in an attractive free cash flow and dividend yield above both our benchmarking peers as well as the broader S&P 500. Furthermore, strong execution against our higher return growth projects over the past several years has resulted in three-year EBITDA growth and return on invested capital that is well above the peer median. And as we've outlined, our in-flight growth investments will deliver additional incremental earnings and cash flow upside with high-quality return on invested capital across the economic cycle. To close on Slide 10, Dow continues to be well-positioned to deliver higher mid-cycle earnings and cash flow above pre-pandemic levels in both the near term and over the economic cycle. With our flexible and advantaged operating model, we're also able to effectively manage in a wide range of macro environments. We continue to deploy our industry-leading cash flow in a disciplined and balanced way to maximize long-term value creation. Case in point, our new share repurchase program reflects the strength of our performance and confidence in our ability to continue delivering industry-leading cash flow. We're making good progress on our decarbonized growth strategy, delivering incremental earnings by capitalizing on fast-growing demand for more sustainable solutions. Our in-flight actions are elevating our underlying mid-cycle EBITDA above pre-pandemic levels, all as we advance our return on capital. Over the past 125 years, Dow has transformed from a small science start-up to the company that we are today, an industry leader with global scale, a differentiated portfolio, and sustainable solutions that enable us to tackle some of the world's greatest challenges. Our ambition, purpose, and capabilities continue to make Dow a great place to work for PhDs, engineers, chemists, and leading talent from many different disciplines. For the second year in a row, Dow has been recognized as the only material science company on the Great Place to Work and Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For list. These advantages enable us to capture value growth while continuing to focus on delivering for our customers advancing our ambition and creating value for all stakeholders. With that, I'll turn it over to Pankaj to open the Q&A.Pankaj Gupta -- Director, Investor Relations Thank you, Jim. Now let's move on to your questions. I would like to remind you that our forward-looking statements apply to both our prepared remarks and the following Q&A. Operator, please provide the Q&A instructions. 