
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by, and welcome to the PerkinElmer's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions].I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Stephen Willoughby, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Stephen Willoughby -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to PerkinElmer's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. On the call with me today are Prahlad Singh, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Jamey Mock, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Peter Wrighton-Smith, Founder and Chief Executive of Oxford Immunotec. If you have not yet received a copy of our earnings press release or slide presentation, you may find copies of them on the Investors section of our website at perkinelmer.com. Please note that this call is being webcast and will be archived on our website. Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone of the safe harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings. Statements or comments made on this call will be forward-looking statements, which may include, but are not necessarily limited to, financial projections or other statements of the company's plans, objectives, expectations or intentions. These matters involve certain risks and uncertainties. The company's actual results may differ significantly from those projected or suggested by any forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, which are discussed in detail in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views as of today. We disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future, even if our estimates change. So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today. During this call, we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release. To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment, we will do so promptly.With that, I'll now turn it over to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Prahlad Singh. Prahlad?Prahlad Singh -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Steve, and good afternoon, everyone. Reflecting on the third quarter of 2021, I can confidently say that our efforts, our investments and our business performance together truly reflected the essence and impact of the new PerkinElmer, a concept we introduced at our analyst meeting back in June. The operational improvements, recent acquisitions in life sciences and diagnostics, R&D investments in the food and applied markets, accelerated innovation across the Board and a ramped up focus on culture, employee engagement and technological innovation have collectively been bearing fruit. While there is still significantly more to come, I think between our very strong financial results and the additional color that Jamey, Peter and I will share with you today, we will further illustrate the immense incremental value we are delivering to all our stakeholders now and are positioned to do so well into the future. To stay on this idea for a moment, our ongoing portfolio transformation into higher-growth end markets continued during the third quarter as we closed on our previously announced acquisitions of SIRION Biotech and Immunodiagnostic Systems. We also announced and were able to fairly quickly close on our largest acquisition to date, BioLegend, three months ahead of schedule. I'll touch more on these great recent additions in a bit, but I'm thrilled to see the initial teamwork that is already occurring between these businesses and the rest of PerkinElmer. While collaborations are already underway, I expect there will only be expanded and turbocharged coming out of a companywide innovation summit we are hosting in a couple of weeks. I'm very proud of how our now 15,000 employees around the world have continued to execute during the third quarter despite facing existing challenges and even starting to come across some new ones.

 



While Jamey will provide more details in a bit, I'd like to highlight the 16% non-COVID organic growth we generated in the quarter, which was again solidly ahead of our guidance. Our COVID revenues came in close to twice our expectation as testing remained similar to the levels we experienced in the second quarter and our teams were again well supplied and ready to meet the incremental demand. This led to adjusted earnings per share in the quarter of $2.31, which was over 40% above our guidance despite the ongoing strong investments back in the business. Overall, we continued to see strong non-COVID demand trends across the business with double-digit growth in all major regions. So while we may be facing a few new headwinds, I feel the team is proactively responding and executing for our customers. Just as we have successfully done over the past few years, we're now up against numerous other pressures across our business and the global economy. While I'm pleased with our strong performance in the third quarter and excited about all our recent acquisitions, I wanted to spend a little more time today sharing some insight into two of the newer additions as we haven't had the opportunity to discuss them in greater detail with investors up until this point. First, I'd like to touch on Oxford Immunotec, which we closed back in March. As Steve mentioned, Oxford's Founder and CEO, Peter Wrighton-Smith, has joined us on today's call. As many of you may know, from its days as a stand-alone publicly traded company, Oxford is currently the number two player in the latent tuberculosis testing market globally. And I think with some of our core capabilities and broader regulatory, distribution and service offerings, the business is well positioned to gain share in the years ahead. In terms of what's been happening since Oxford joined the PerkinElmer family earlier this year, I'm extremely pleased to share that it is on pace to exceed its revenue targets for this year and has been making great progress on rolling out its automation workflows around the world with an anticipated approval for this new workflow in the U.S. next year.I thought it might be helpful to share just some of the ways that two companies have been already been collaborating within the first six months of being under the same roof. I hope it will give you a feel for the synergy potential we both believe exists. With the help of our integration transformation office, which was set up last year, Oxford and PerkinElmer are already leveraging each other's capabilities in a number of ways, such as integrating our JANUS liquid handlers into Oxford's medium throughput automation workflow that is currently seeking and receiving regulatory approvals around the world, or Oxford's utilizing Nexcelom's Celigo cell counting instruments in its new high throughput automation workflow. In addition, Oxford is also already starting to leverage PerkinElmer's existing field service force to assist with the installation of these automation offerings. Oxford is now beginning to transition from being a developer and manufacturer of diagnostic kits to now offering customers fully automated workflows for TB testing. While it is still early and we have many other plans in process that will play out over the longer-term, those are just a few examples of the initial progress that we are quite excited about.Now I'd like to turn it over to Peter to share some thoughts on the business since becoming part of the PerkinElmer family and maybe some perspective on where he sees the business going in the coming years. Peter?Peter Wrighton-Smith -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Prahlad. Our strategy for advancing in the attractive growing latent TB testing market is based on a number of key pillars: firstly, expanding our commercial presence to maximize our penetration of existing and new countries; secondly, dramatically improving our workflow through automating our assay and bringing that new automated workflow to all major jurisdictions worldwide and in a variety of throughputs to suit customers of different sizes; thirdly, improving the economics for our customers and us. This is about reducing our cost of goods to our customers and our advantage, but it's also about capturing more value from the product and service ecosystem created by automation. Being part of the wider PerkinElmer family is helping us to execute better in all three of those areas. For example, we're already leveraging EUROIMMUN's presence and field forces to access new countries in South America and leveraging Tulip's presence and relationships in the Indian subcontinent. We are accelerating our automation journey, as Prahlad already mentioned, by adopting PerkinElmer's suite of automation both from core PerkinElmer in the form of JANUS and by utilizing technology from acquired companies such as EUROIMMUN and Nexcelom. We're also able now to capture more of the value from automation as we have a pathway through PerkinElmer's OneSource business and its global supply chain capabilities to sell automation consumables and automation service contracts, both things that we were not equipped to do on our own. We're now also exploring a number of additional COGS reduction opportunities by in-sourcing key raw materials that we currently purchase from third parties. BioLegend in particular, has a number of antibodies and other immunological reagents that we're looking to incorporate into our own immunology-based technology.At the same time, we've been able to streamline our cost structure. Clearly, we're no longer supporting a public company infrastructure ourselves, but more generally, we've been able to reduce our G&A spend by leveraging PerkinElmer's capabilities in those areas. Putting all this together, even just six months since becoming part of the PerkinElmer family, we're seeing intensified revenue growth and improved profitability on the bottom line. We're also having growing success in deploying our T cell technology in SARS-CoV-2. Our testing service revenues continue to grow in support of the Phase II and Phase III licensure studies and in support of vaccine deployment decisions under the umbrella of the U.K. vaccine's task force. On the kit side, we're also seeing growing and maturing demand as the important role of T cells has become more widely recognized as a critical means of assessing vaccine efficacy, particularly in immunosuppressed and other high-risk populations. Supported by close to 15 peer-reviewed publications on our technology, T cell testing is now coming into the mainstream in several European countries. We believe this testing will last well into 2022 and probably beyond as we learn to live with SARS-CoV-2 as an endemic mutating global virus. We also see an opportunity to grow our immunology testing services in support of vaccine and pharma clients more broadly outside of SARS-CoV-2. Clearly, we have our own well-respected capabilities in T cell testing. But as part of PerkinElmer, we have two other distinct advantages. Firstly, we can leverage the infrastructure of PerkinElmer's global network of specialty clinical laboratories to establish wider worldwide coverage, something of growing importance to vaccine and pharma clients that want to run trials all over the world. Secondly, we're now partnering with BioLegend as their world-leading portfolio of immunology research reagents gives us the expertise to rapidly expand our service offering beyond our own core technology.With that, I'd like to hand it back to Prahlad.Prahlad Singh -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Peter. I look forward to seeing the traction we make over the coming quarters. I also wanted to share with you more about our recent acquisition of Immunodiagnostic Systems, or IDS, which closed in early July and may have been a bit overshadowed by our analyst meeting and the announcement to acquire BioLegend. I want to make sure our shareholders know why we are so excited about IDS becoming part of PerkinElmer and what we believe it brings to the overall company. The addition of IDS is a great example of where we expect one plus one to equal at least three and hopefully more. Let me first tell you a bit more about the company. It's a developer and manufacturer of medium throughput chemiluminescence analyzers and assays that was previously publicly traded in the U.K. and have been going through an evolution of its assay menu over the last several years. By adding IDS, we have significantly enhanced our in-house chemiluminescence assay development expertise. This expertise will provide even more resources to support the development and launch of EUROIMMUN's high-throughput, random access chemiluminescent system, Accentis which we expect to introduce next year. Furthermore, by adding IDS's existing mid-throughput RA10 chemiluminescence analyzer and its current installed base to the business. Upon the launch of the Accentis platform, we will then be able to offer a spectrum of chemiluminescence systems and assays to our customers. Also, in just the first few months since the acquisition closed, we have started to leverage each other's commercial and distribution strengths. For example, at the recent AACC meeting in Atlanta, PerkinElmer diagnostics, EUROIMMUN, IDS and Oxford Immunotec, all jointly exhibited and met with customers in-person for the first time. And of course, the addition of BioLegend, which closed in mid-September and was the largest deal in our company's history has kept us busy to say the least.I'm happy that we were able to close the deal several months before the end of the year so that all teams and colleagues involved are ready to hit the ground running heading into next year. While BioLegend has been a part of PerkinElmer for only about 45 days, its financial performance has continued to remain extremely strong and hasn't missed a beat as part of this transition. This is a testament to the strong leadership throughout the BioLegend team who are doing a terrific job in running the business seamlessly for customers, while also working tirelessly to ensure a successful transition to the PerkinElmer family. However, I'm even more excited about the interactions and collaborations that are beginning to take place between the BioLegend team and the broader PerkinElmer organization. As I briefly mentioned earlier, I'm especially looking forward to our upcoming companywide Innovation Summit that is planned for later this year at BioLegend's campus in San Diego. At this event, we'll bring together R&D, innovation, commercial and operational leaders and experts from across the company for several days to collaborate, strategize and just get to know one another. I can't wait to see all the impactful ideas and connections that come from this event. As it relates to innovation, in early October, we received U.S. FDA Emergency Use Authorization for our PKamp respiratory SARS-CoV-2 PCR assay, which provides for the detection of flu, RSV and COVID in a single assay, which we and others expect will play a larger role in testing during the coming winter months in the Northern Hemisphere. Additionally, our EUROIMMUN business recently received FDA Emergency Use Authorization for its quantitative COVID serology assay, which targets the S1 protein. These two new COVID assays add to our existing strong portfolio of serology, antigen and PCR assays, which are being used to -- in the ongoing fight against this pandemic.From a corporate responsibility standpoint, while the world of ESG is still an evolving place, I was enthused to see my colleagues effort at our recent companywide global impact day held last month, where it was great to see over 350 different group initiatives take place, all led by our colleagues around the world. As you may recall, we outlined our initial ESG-related targets at our analyst meeting in June. And I'm delighted to see efforts already underway to work toward achieving them. For instance, we recently completed a new companywide employee engagement survey, which we will use to ensure PerkinElmer continues to be a great place to work and a team, everyone is proud to be a part of. The initial results look very positive on all fronts of engagement, diversity and inclusion, and health and well-being perspective. But I'm quite sure there is always room for improvement. Additionally, in our recently released corporate social responsibility report, we have begun reporting under SASB, which has quickly been considered the leading industry standards platform. With PerkinElmer now adhering to this framework, we are building on our historical reporting against the carbon disclosure project, which aligns with the task force on climate-related financial disclosures. I'm confident we have good plans and initial targets in place, and I'm happy to see the company more formally rally around these efforts. In closing, while there always seems to be various external pressures we must face, such as the current semiconductor shortage, logistics bottlenecks and potential global tax reform, I'm proud to see our team continue to proactively navigate these challenges with agility, innovation and a unique and dedicated focus on the customer with strong global teamwork. This corporate character has allowed us to successfully mitigate the impact of these various challenges and provide the opportunity for us to continue to achieve and even exceed our plans, like we did here again in the third quarter. The end of the year is always a busy time filled with commercial activities, strategic and operational planning and both professional and personal commitments, and I expect it to be that way again this year, but I'm confident our teams are up for it.I'd now like to turn the call over to Jamey to provide more detail and perspective on our third quarter results and color as it relates to our guidance for the fourth quarter. Jamey?Jamey Mock -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Prahlad, and good evening, everyone. Before turning to the financial results, I want to remind everyone that our third quarter earnings call presentation has been posted on the Investors section of our website under Financial Information. As Prahlad mentioned, it was quite a busy quarter for the company. I believe the team performed extremely well, and we continue to make great traction on executing the transformation of the business from both an organic and operational perspective, but also inorganically as well, which I'll touch on in a bit. Both our COVID and non-COVID revenue performance exceeded our expectations with double-digit growth in both our Discovery & Analytical Solutions and Diagnostics segments. Additionally, the recent additions to the PerkinElmer family remain on track. So we are set up well heading into the end of the year. During the third quarter, adjusted revenue grew 21% compared to last year to almost $1.2 billion and included a 1% foreign exchange tailwind and an 8% contribution from recent acquisitions. Organic revenue grew 12%, 17 percentage points better than our guidance as our non-COVID revenue grew 16% organically, ahead of our 12% assumption, and our COVID revenue did not fall off to the degree that we had anticipated. As it relates to COVID, we generated approximately $300 million of revenue from our related products and services, which was close to double the $165 million we had projected and down only slightly from the $365 million we generated in the second quarter. Approximately $170 million of our COVID-related revenue in Q3 came from core products with the remainder coming from our COVID-related lab services. As also highlighted by others, we saw a noticeable uptick in demand for our PCR tests and RNA extraction kits in the latter half of the quarter, and some contribution from recently awarded testing contracts such as with the Department of Health and Human Services and Mount Sinai.As we have assumed in our guidance, we reduced capacity made available for the State of California in our Lab-In-A-Lab offering at the beginning of the quarter, which brought down its revenue contribution as compared to the first half of the year. However, we did see average daily volumes in the lab increased significantly as the quarter progressed with a number of days in late September, surpassing 40,000 tests per day. I'm extremely proud of what we've been able to accomplish at our lab in California over the last year from setting it up from scratch in under 70 days to immediately and appropriately addressing all workflow challenges that may come up when getting something like this off the ground in such a short period of time and in the middle of a pandemic to successfully meeting and delivering on varying levels of demand on a week-by-week and month-by-month basis. Given the successful contributions, I'm happy to report that our contract with the state for this COVID testing lab has been extended by another year through the end of October 2022. As it relates to our business segments, Diagnostics generated $654 million of revenue in the third quarter, which represented 56% of total revenue and was up 21% year-over-year. Organically, the business grew 13% and was up 25% organically on a non-COVID basis. Geographically, our Diagnostics business was strong around the world, with strong double-digit non-COVID organic growth in all regions. As it relates to our immunodiagnostics franchise, total revenue was up more than 40% in the quarter, with strong growth in both COVID and non-COVID products and services. EUROIMMUN continued to grow robustly and was up more than 20% organically. This business is fantastic and one that we continue to invest in heavily as it is now on pace to do more than $500 million in revenue this year. As Prahlad mentioned, we closed on our acquisition of IDS in early July, and are excited to see the R&D and commercial synergies it can provide with our existing EUROIMMUN franchise.Our applied genomics business, which also falls within our broader Diagnostics segment, continues to take share on our improved brand recognition. While COVID-related sales in the business have fallen off as equipment-related capacity has been built out, we continue to see strong demand for NGS reagents related to COVID variant detection and our high-throughput real-time PCR workstation, the explorer G3 continues to see strong uptick. Our non-COVID revenue was up more than 50% as core NGS and large molecule activities continues to bounce back after being initially hampered during the pandemic and funding continues to remain strong. When I think about all the ways the pandemic has impacted our business, I believe our applied genomics business in particular, is one that is going to permanently benefit over the longer-term as customers now have so much more experience with our high-quality instruments and kits and our sales force is now even better connected with key opinion leaders in this space. In our reproductive health business, while we continue to face pressure globally from declining birth rates, particularly in China, we were again able to grow this business double-digits overall in Q3 through a combination of menu and geographic expansion, new product introductions, growth within our labs business and a modest benefit from easier year-ago comps, particularly in Asia. Turning to our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment. The business generated $513 million in revenue in the quarter, which represented 44% of total revenue and was up 21% year-over-year. Organically, the business grew 10%, led by continued strength in our life science business with double-digit growth from pharma customers and mid-single-digit growth from academic and government end markets. In our discovery business, we are pleased to have closed on our acquisitions of both SIRION and BioLegend in the quarter and are excited to see their contributions to our growth in large molecule in the years to come.Sales into industrial and applied markets grew in the low double-digits, driven by strong growth in mass spec, while food was up mid-single digits. Looking at the company overall from a geographic basis, we saw double-digit non-COVID growth in all regions and greater than 20% non-COVID organic growth in China. This led to our total company non-COVID organic growth coming in at 16%, which was 400 basis points above our guidance. Operationally, we are extremely pleased with our performance in light of various macro pressures. Our adjusted operating margins of 31% remained strong, driven by volume leverage, favorable mix and productivity programs, slightly offset by continued investment in our talent and culture, research and development, improved e-commerce, network and security infrastructure, digital capabilities and strengthening our customer relationships, which we expect to help drive results in the years to come. Overall, adjusted earnings per share were $2.31, which is up 11% versus a year ago and 43% above our Q3 guidance. As it relates to the balance sheet, we had a lot of moving pieces this quarter with the closing of IDS and SIRION and the financing and closing of BioLegend. We finished the quarter with $5.1 billion of debt and approximately $500 million of cash. Free cash flow was extremely strong in the quarter and so far this year. We generated $324 million of adjusted free cash flow in the quarter, which equates to a 122% conversion of our net income. This brings our adjusted free cash flow so far this year through the first nine months to over $1 billion with a conversion rate of over 100%. Given these strong cash flows and the better-than-expected earnings, our leverage at the end of the quarter stood at 2.2 times net debt-to-EBITDA on a trailing 12-month basis as we added $2.8 billion in new debt to fund the acquisition of BioLegend. It may be a little counterintuitive, but we expect our net leverage to increase over the next few quarters even as we begin to aggressively delever as we expected earnings-related tailwinds from our COVID revenues to come down.As it relates to guidance, we are expecting Q4 adjusted revenues of approximately $1.2 billion, which assumes 8% non-COVID organic growth, $200 million in COVID-related revenues and an 11% contribution from M&A and a neutral impact from foreign exchange. On the bottom line, we are now expecting adjusted earnings per share of $2.05, which assumes approximately $26 million of interest expense, a tax rate of 22% and 126 million to 127 million of diluted shares outstanding. Given our strong performance year-to-date and our confidence in our fourth quarter outlook, I'm happy to report we are raising our full year revenue and earnings guidance for the third consecutive quarter this year. We now expect over $1.4 billion of COVID revenue and at least 15% non-COVID organic revenue growth for the full year. This brings our total adjusted revenue to just under $5 billion, including an 8% contribution from M&A and a 2% tailwind from foreign exchange. We are now bringing our adjusted earnings per share guidance for the year up nearly $1 to $10.81 per share, which equates to 30% year-over-year growth. All of this guidance is detailed on the second to last page of today's presentation as well. As it relates to BioLegend, we expect total year sales this year of approximately $320 million, which would be up 33% from 2020, included in our fourth quarter adjusted revenue guidance is approximately $80 million of contribution. Due to the faster-than-expected close of the deal, we are even more confident in the previously announced accretion of $0.30 and greater than $0.50 in 2022 and 2023, respectively, while there will be a modest dilutive impact in the fourth quarter as a result of the earlier closing.Importantly, integration activities have commenced sooner than anticipated. And as Prahlad mentioned, we are excited about our upcoming companywide Innovation Summit in a few weeks at the BioLegend headquarters. Additionally, we were able to close on our financing at rates slightly below our deal model and current interest rate levels. So overall, a fantastic outcome, and our teams are off and running. In closing, I'm encouraged as our team continues to perform at a high level. Our organic and inorganic investments are paying dividends now and set us up well looking forward and our transformation of the business to the new PerkinElmer is well underway. We are excited for a strong finish to the year and are well positioned heading into 2022 and the years ahead, not just financially, but also with our people and culture and most importantly, for our customers.With that, I'd now like to turn it over to the operator to begin Q&A.