
OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Union Pacific First Quarter 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] And the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Lance Fritz, Chairman, President and CEO for Union Pacific. Thank you, Mr. Fritz, you may begin.Lance M. Fritz -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, and good morning, everybody, and welcome to Union Pacific's first quarter earnings conference call. With me today in Omaha are Eric Gehringer, Executive Vice President of Operations; Kenny Rocker, Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; and Jennifer Hamann, our Chief Financial Officer. Before discussing first quarter results, I want to recognize our employees for their work during the major winter events we experienced in February and early March. Many of the communities we serve faced unprecedented weather conditions that damaged factories and made surface transportation nearly impossible. Our employees rose to the occasion to maintain or restore critical service in those areas, while dealing with weather impacts to their own homes and families. We owe a debt of gratitude to our team as they, again, prove their resiliency, their grit, and their dedication to serve.Moving on to first quarter results. This morning, Union Pacific is reporting 2021 first quarter net income of $1.3 billion or $2 a share. This compares to $1.5 billion or $2.15 per share in the first quarter of 2020. Our quarterly operating ratio came in at 60.1%, reflecting the impact of weather and rising fuel prices in the quarter. As you'll hear from the team, absent these items, our core results improved 150 basis points. We delivered strong productivity in very challenging conditions. And based on our core performance, I remain optimistic about the remainder of the year. In fact, we are affirming our 2021 guidance. While it was a tough quarter, it does not dampen our expectations. We're in a terrific position to take advantage of the improving economic outlook and grow our volume. Our service product, our cost structure, and continuing productivity set us up for an outstanding year.To get us started reviewing the details, I'll turn it over to Eric for an operations update.Eric Gehringer -- Executive Vice President-Operations

 



Thanks, Lance, and good morning. The operating team rose to the challenge this past quarter as it responded to numerous weather challenges across the network. The speed with which the team recovered the network is a testament to the transformation PSR has had on our operations. Moving to slide four. We began 2021 with strong key performance indicators across the board as the operations were solid and running smooth in January. However, the winter weather challenges we faced in February and March across our network had a heavy impact. The South, in particular, is not accustomed to the weather they faced. In fact, the weather across our Southern region represented the second worst stretch of cold temperatures in over 70 years. Through the team's hard work, our network recovered quickly, and we were able to mitigate most of the impact to our service. In fact, we recovered twice as fast compared to our recovery from the flooding in 2019 and significantly faster than any disruptions we experienced before implementation of PSR.While the operating team is frustrated with the mixed results you see on slide four, we will return all of these measures to a state of constant improvement through execution of our transportation plan. Weather heavily impacted the results you see in freight car velocity, freight car terminal dwell and train speed. However, we continue to make good progress on our efficiency measures, as both locomotive and workforce productivity improved in the quarter. These improvements were driven by our continual evaluation and adjustment of our transportation plan as well as through our continued efforts to grow train link. Intermodal trip plan compliance decreased in the quarter as weather and a surge in intermodal shipments of 12% year-over-year placed significant pressure on that service. Our manifest service remained solid during the quarter, driving improvement in trip plan compliance for manifest and autos. The team did an excellent job of maintaining this service product throughout the weather impact. slide five highlights some of our recent network changes. We continue to push train length to drive productivity, while striving to provide a better service product to our customers.Train length was almost 9,250 feet in the first quarter, which was up 10% or 850 feet year-over-year. One enabler of this great progress is our siding extension program. During the quarter, we completed two sidings and began construction or the bidding process on another 18 sidings. We continue to make progress in the redesign of our operations in the Houston area to drive efficiency. We are leveraging the recent investment of our Inglewood facility, and we consolidated the blocking of local cars at our Settegast Yard, allowing us to curtail operations at four of our smaller yards around the area. This allows us to bypass those smaller yards and deliver cars directly to the customers, eliminating extra handlings, improving transit time and reducing crew starts. We also curtailed switching operations at our North Council Bluffs Yard by leveraging surrounding yards, which will reduce local train starts. As I look to the future, I'm excited about the full pipeline of initiatives we have to drive productivity throughout our network and enhance our service product.Turning to slide six. Everything we do is done with the focus toward safely accomplishing our work. We understand the continuous improvement we need to make in safety, and we have the right plan to achieve our goals. We remain focused on executing on the PSR principles that transformed our operations, and there still remain many opportunities for us to improve our operations and drive productivity. We have work to do to return our service product to the level we expect. We need to return intermodal trip plan compliance to the mid- to upper 80s, manifest trip plan compliance to the low to mid-70s and freight car velocity in the low 220s. We're on that path to date as we fully recognize the importance of providing our customers with a highly reliable service product.

 



With that, I will turn it over to Kenny to provide an update on the business environment.Kenny Rocker -- Executive Vice President of Marketing and SalesThank you, Eric, and good morning. Our first quarter volume was down 1% from a year ago due to weather events and the leap year in 2020. Solid gains in our intermodal and export grain markets were offset by declines in our industrial and energy-related markets. Freight revenue was down 5% for the quarter due to the decrease in volume, coupled with the lower fuel surcharge and negative business mix that offset -- that were offset by our core pricing gains. So let's take a closer look at how each of our business groups performed in the first quarter. Starting with our bulk markets, revenue for the quarter was down 1%. Volume decreased by 2%, which was partially offset by a 1% increase in average revenue per car due to the positive mix in traffic and core pricing gains. Coal and renewable carloads were down 16% as a result of continued high customer inventory levels, a contract loss and weather-related challenges, which were partially offset by higher natural gas prices.Volume for grain and grain products was up 16% driven by increased demand for export grains. Fertilizer carloads were down 4% as reduced export potash shipments were partially offset by stronger demand for industrial sulfur. And finally, food and refrigerated volume was down 6% driven primarily by decreased demand for food service due to the ongoing pandemic as well as weather-related challenges. Moving on to Industrial. Industrial revenue declined 13% for the quarter driven by an 11% decrease in volume. Average revenue per car also declined 1% from a lower fuel surcharge and mix. Energy and specialized shipments decreased 14% primarily driven by reduced crude oil shipments due to unfavorable price spreads and reduced demand. Forest products volume grew by 7%. Lumber was driven by strong housing starts, along with an increase in repair and remodel. We also saw strength in brown paper driven by increased box demand and low inventories.Industrial chemicals and plastics shipments were down 9% for the quarter due to the severe storm in mid-February that caused plant interruptions for producers throughout the Gulf Coast as well as feedstock shortages in certain sectors. Metals and minerals volume was down 16% primarily driven by weather and market softness in rocks, coupled with reduced frac sand shipments associated with the decline in drilling and surplus in local sand. Turning now to premium. Revenue for the quarter was up 2% on a 6% increase in volume. Average revenue per car declined by 4%, reflecting mix effects from greater container volume and fewer automotive carload shipments. Automotive volume was down 13% for the quarter as manufacturers struggled with semiconductor-related part shortages and extreme winter weather disruptions to the supply chain. Finished vehicle and auto parts shipments were impacted similarly, with finished vehicles down 13% and auto parts down 14%. Intermodal volume increased by 12% in the quarter. Domestic intermodal was up 16% year-over-year due to continued strength in retail sales and recent business wins.Parcel, in particular, benefited from ongoing strength in e-commerce. International intermodal volume grew 8%, despite port congestion related to strong growth in containerized imports. Now looking ahead to the rest of 2021. For our bulk commodities, we expect continued negative outlook for coal. Electricity demand and natural gas prices are forecasted to improve. However, high customer inventory levels, combined with increased demand for other energy sources and a contract loss, present a challenging market. However, there is continued strength for export grain, as China remains committed to incremental ag product purchases, and the 2021 calendar year was clearly a tougher year-over-year comparison in the back half of the year. We also are optimistic with our biofuel shipments, as domestic production is expected to increase, which will drive new volume at new UP destination facilities for both renewable diesel feedstock and finished products. As we look ahead to our industrial commodities, the year-over-year comps for our energy markets are favorable. However, there is still uncertainty with the speed of the recovery in those markets. We are encouraged by the stronger forecast for industrial production.Full year 2021 is now forecasted at 6.5%, a two percentage point improvement since we spoke in January. Plastics volumes will also remain strong for us in 2021 as production rates increase. And lastly, for premium, we expect uplift for both our automotive and intermodal businesses. Automotive sales are forecasted to increase from 14 million units in 2020 to 16 million in 2021. We are optimistic that automotive production will normalize, as supply chain issues for parts are expected to improve later in the second quarter. With regard to intermodal, limited truck capacity will encourage conversion from over-the-road truck to rail. Retail inventories remain historically low. Restocking of inventory, along with continued strength in sales, should drive intermodal volumes higher this year. Before I hand this over to Jennifer, I'd like to express my appreciation to our operating and engineering teams for their hard work and dedication to keep our network running in the unprecedented weather events in February and March. Both our commercial and operating teams work closely together to quickly recover operations for our customers and win new business.With that, I'll turn it over to Jennifer to review our financial performance.Jennifer Hamann -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Kenny, and good morning. I'm going to start with a look at the first quarter operating ratio and earnings per share on slide 13. As you heard from Lance, Union Pacific is reporting first quarter earnings per share of $2 and a quarterly operating ratio of 60.1%. Comparing our first quarter results to 2020, the extreme winter weather previously discussed negatively impacted our operating ratio by 160 basis points, or $0.16 to earnings. In addition, rising fuel prices throughout the quarter and the associated 2-month lag on our fuel surcharge recovery programs impacted our quarterly ratio by 100 basis points, or $0.11 per share. Despite these challenges, our core operations and profitability continued to improve, delivering 150 basis points of benefit to our operating ratio and adding $0.12 to earnings per share. Looking now at our first quarter income statement on slide 14. Operating revenue totaled $5 billion, down 4% versus 2020 on a 1% year-over-year volume decrease.Operating expense decreased 3% to $3 billion, demonstrating our consistent ability to adjust costs more than volume. Taken together, we are reporting first quarter operating income of $2 billion, a 7% decrease versus last year. Interest expense increased 4% compared to 2020, resulting from an increase in fees related to our debt exchange, with some offset from lower weighted average debt levels. Income tax decreased 7% due to lower pre-tax income. Net income of $1.3 billion decreased 9% versus 2020, which, when combined with share repurchases, resulted in earnings per share of $2, down 7%. Looking more closely at first quarter revenue, slide 15 provides a breakdown of our freight revenue, which totaled $4.6 billion, down 5% compared to 2020. Factoring in weather and last year being a leap year, the volume impact on freight revenue was a 75 basis point decrease. Fuel surcharge negatively impacted freight revenue by 200 basis points compared to last year. The decrease was driven by the lag in fuel surcharge recovery as well as slightly lower fuel prices. Our pricing actions continued to yield pricing dollars in excess of inflation. However, those gains were more than offset by a negative business mix and reduced freight revenue 225 basis points.Although our grain shipments increased in the quarter, this impact was more than offset by very strong intermodal volumes, coupled with declines in petroleum and industrial product shipments. Now let's move on to slide 16, which provides a summary of our first quarter operating expenses. Starting with compensation and benefits expense, down 3% year-over-year. First quarter workforce levels declined 12% or about 4,100 full-time equivalents, generating very strong productivity against only a 1% decrease in volume. Specifically, our train and engine workforce continues to be more than volume variable, down 11%, while management, engineering and mechanical workforces together decreased 13%. Offsetting some of this productivity was an elevated cost per employee, up 10%, as we tightly manage headcount, base wage inflation and higher year-over-year incentive compensation as well as higher weather-related crew costs. Quarterly fuel expense decreased 5%, a result of lower volume and prices. Our fuel consumption rate was essentially flat, as productivity initiatives were offset by the additional fuel needed as a result of the extremely cold temperatures.Purchase services and materials expense improved 6% driven by our loop subsidiary utilizing less drainage as a result of lower auto volumes as well as maintenance cost related to a smaller active equipment fleet. These savings were partially offset by additional weather-related expenses. Equipment and other rents fell 7% driven by higher equity income from our ownership in TTX. The other expense line increased $22 million this quarter driven by higher casualty expenses that were primarily related to adverse developments on certain claims. This increase should not be viewed as an indicator of UP's current safety record. As we think about expenses going forward, recall that last year, in the second and third quarters, we took temporary actions in response to the pandemic, reducing management salaries and closing shops. These actions produced a 2% headwind in total for second quarter expenses, predominantly impacting compensation and benefits and purchased services and material expenses. And for a full year comparison, excluding Brazos, we now expect both purchased services and materials as well as other expense to be up mid-single digits versus 2020.Lastly, we expect our annual effective tax rate to be slightly higher than previously thought, around 24%. Looking now at productivity on slide 17. In spite of the $35 million weather headwind, we continue our solid productivity trend in the first quarter, generating $105 million. Productivity results were led again by train length improvements contributing to strong workforce and locomotive productivity, as Eric detailed earlier. Turning to slide 18 and our cash flow. Cash from operations in the first quarter decreased to $2 billion from $2.2 billion in 2020, a 9% decline. Despite that, free cash flow after capital investments increased 5% to over $1.4 billion, highlighting our ongoing capital discipline as well as a slightly slower start to our capital programs. This generated a cash flow conversion rate of 106%. Free cash flow after dividends also increased in the quarter, up $115 million, or 17%. Supported by our strong cash generation and cash balances, we returned $2 billion to shareholders during the first quarter, as we maintained our industry-leading dividend payout and repurchased shares totaling $1.4 billion.We finished the first quarter with a comparable adjusted debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.8 times, on par with year-end 2020. Wrapping up on slide 19. Despite the slow start to the year, we remain confident in our ability to show improvement across all three performance drivers: volume, price and productivity. We do face some volume headwinds, declining coal demand, the lingering impact of industrial chemical plant closures from the February storm and the semiconductor shortage that is continuing to impact autos into the second quarter. Setting that aside, though, there are even more reasons to be encouraged about 2021: the pace of vaccination rollouts, strong consumer and trade demand and an improving industrial production forecast, and we are increasingly optimistic about our ability to drive business to the railroad. Since early March, we have seen an improving demand trajectory, with March averaging roughly 157,000 7-day carloadings, and we crossed the 160,000-plus threshold in April. So with the strength we're seeing in our volumes, we now expect full year carload growth to be around 6%.Our guidance around full year pricing, productivity and operating ratio improvement in the range of 150 to 200 basis points all remain intact. However, with our updated volume outlook, we will likely be closer to the 200 than the 150. We clearly have work ahead of us to achieve these goals, but a brighter economic picture and good traction on our PSR initiatives give us a path to success. Turning to cash and capital. Our capital spending plan remains at $2.9 billion for the year, well within our long-term guidance of below 15% of revenue as we generate capacity through our PSR focus. We will maintain our industry-leading dividend payout ratio and are committed to strong share repurchases. Specifically, we plan to return approximately $6 billion to our shareholders in 2021 through share repurchases. Before I turn it back to Lance, I'd like to add my thanks to our exceptional workforce. Mother nature tested our capabilities this quarter. And once again, our workforce showed they are ready for the challenges and committed to serving our customers.So with that, I'll turn it back to Lance.Lance M. Fritz -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jennifer. As you've heard me say many times, our first priority will always be safety. I'm confident in our ability to meet our high expectations in that area. With today being Earth Day, it feels appropriate to highlight the actions we're taking to protect our planet. In February, we announced our science-based target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26% against the 2018 base by 2030. Additionally, in our 2021 proxy statement, we rolled out our ESG strategy, which we call Building A Sustainable Future 2030. We'll expand on this strategy in our 2020 Building America Report, which is going to be published in early May in conjunction with our Investor Day. We're reinforcing our commitment to delivering value to all of our stakeholders.As you heard today, we're very optimistic about the future. Our service product made more resilient through PSR, and lower cost structures, enabling us to win new business and expand opportunities that will ultimately grow the top line. Looking to the rest of the year and improving economic outlook, our continued commitment to value-based pricing that exceeds inflation and the opportunity for strong productivity gives us confidence to affirm our 2021 guidance. Union Pacific is poised to take advantage of a strengthening economy by leveraging our best-in-industry franchise to produce long-term growth and excellent returns.So with that, let's open up the line for your questions.