
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Zions Bancorporation's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Results Webcast. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. James Abbott. You may begin.James R. Abbott -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and External Communications

 



Thank you, Towanda, and good evening, everyone. We welcome you to this conference call to discuss our 2021 third quarter earnings. I would like to remind you that during this call, we will be making forward-looking statements, although actual results may differ materially. We encourage you to review the disclaimer in the press release or the slide deck on slide 2 dealing with forward-looking information and the presentation of non-GAAP measures, which apply equally to statements made during this call. A copy of the earnings release as well as the slide deck are available at zionsbancoporation.com.For our agenda today, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Harris Simmons will provide operating remarks -- opening remarks, followed by comments from Scott McLean, our President and Chief Operating Officer. Paul Burdiss, our Chief Financial Officer, will conclude by providing additional detail on Zions' financial condition. With us also today are Keith Maio, our Chief Risk Officer; and Michael Morris, our Chief Credit Officer. We intend to limit the length of this call to one hour. During the question-and-answer section of the call, we request that you limit your questions to one primary and one follow-up question to enable other participants to ask questions.With that, I will turn the time over to Harris.Harris H. Simmons -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks very much, James. We want to welcome all of you to our call. Beginning on slide 3, the themes that are particularly applicable to Zions' most recently as well as -- we believe in the near term horizon are listed here. We are seeing continued strong deposit growth continued in the third quarter has positioned Zions well relative to many of our peers to be able to invest in securities that offer promotions on loan products to core customer segments. Secondly for more than a decade, we worked to position the company to perform very well during an economic downturn. We're really pleased with the result, what you see in our credit outcomes again this quarter.Third, we, along with most in the industry have experienced net attrition of loan balances excluding PPP loans. But over the last quarter, we started to see some new commercial loan growth and our strong deposit growth enabled us again to launch some promotional campaigns in June that have resulted in favorable initial results. These customers are coming from other banks and we've also seen new demand from existing customers. All of it is accretive to net interest income relative to leaving the liquidity and money market accounts and all of this is helpful to our goal of generating positive operating leverage.We're well positioned for rising interest rates, which is helped by strong deposit growth but also reflects the careful deployment of liquidity during earlier, more uncertain points in time. As the outlook becomes more certain we have begun to deploy the liquidity into higher yielding assets. The final item on this slide refers to our ongoing significant investment in technology, which is designed to enable Zions to remain very competitive in the future both relative to the largest U.S. banks, the fintechs and to well-established community banks.Turning to slide 4, we are pleased with the results on most fronts. Our campaigns on owner occupied commercial loans, as well as consumer home equity lines of credit resulted in strong growth in both categories, each increasing at an annualized rate exceeding 10% relative to the prior quarter. Excluding PPP loans, our period end loans and total increased an annualized 5.6%. Deposit growth remained very strong, up an annualized 9.3%, moderately outpacing the growth in the industry, which includes all domestic commercial banks. Over the prior year, deposit growth was 16% which compares to the industry's rate of 12%.

 



It is particularly notable that credit quality continued to improve again, reporting net loan recoveries in a nearly 30% decline and special mention loans from the prior quarter. These, along with other factors led to a further release of loan loss reserves. We indicated last quarter that we would continue to increase the size of the securities portfolio at a rate greater than what we did in 2020. And in the third quarter, we increased the size of the securities portfolio by nearly $2.3 billion or 12% and that's not annualized. That's relative to the prior quarter. Diluted earnings per share decreased to a $1.45 per share from $2.08 from the prior quarter.There were two primary factors that accounted for the decline, the change in the provision expense and the change in the gains and losses on securities. Combined, those two contributed about $0.76 per share less than the third quarters compared to the second. One way we and perhaps some of you look at our earnings is to look at adjusted pre-provision net revenue, which excludes securities gains and losses and subtracting from that actual net charge offs. On that basis, it was unchanged relative to the prior quarter of $290 million. Turning to slide 5, at the top left is a chart of our recent earnings per share results.The chart on the bottom left shows the per share amount for the provision for credit losses during that same period. The provisions defect on earnings per share was quite variable throughout the pandemic and is a major factor in the linked quarter decline in earnings per share. On the right side are some notable items that may be of interest. As previously noted, unrealized losses from securities, less the partial offset from a reduced success fee accrual to the SBIC fund manager equaled $0.12 per share as compared to unrealized gains of $0.25 per share in the prior quarter. Most of the recent gains and losses on securities are attributable to an investment in small business investment company fund.One of the company's within the fund successfully completed an IPO in April, which we described in our first quarter 10-Q with a strong unrealized gain in the second quarter followed by a partial retracement in the third quarter. On slide 6, we highlight the balance sheet profitability metrics. The healthy results were attributable to items that I've previously described. As previously noted, another significant highlight for the quarter was the credit quality of the loan portfolio as illustrated on slide 7. Relative to the prior quarter, we saw a further improvement in problem loans. Using the broadest definition of problem loans, criticized and classified loans dropped more than 17%.Although not shown relative to the prior quarter, special mentioned loans declined at 29% and classified loans declined 10%. Many of you have seen our slide in the past showing our average net charge-off ratio relative to average non-performing assets plus 90 -- plus days past due loans, which is an indicator of loss severity. And shown in this metric relative to our peers can be seen in the appendix. During the five years ending 2020, our average annual loss severity was 15%, while the peer median was 32%. Over the last 12 months, that ratio for Zions is just 6%. We experienced net credit recoveries on loans, which was also true of the prior quarter.Perhaps one of the more interesting credit measures to highlight this quarter is that gross charge-offs were very low, $8 million or just 7 basis points and annualized of average non-PPP loans. Shown in the chart on the bottom right, one can see the volatility of the provision contrasted with the relative stability of net charge-offs. This is mostly the result of changing economic forecasts. Our capital position is depicted on slide 8. We increased our share buyback to $325 million in the third quarter and have indicated that ultimately, we expect a target of common equity Tier 1 ratio at a level moderately above the peer median. We expect to announce any capital actions for the fourth quarter in conjunction with our regularly scheduled board meeting this coming Friday.Next, Scott McLean, our President and Chief Operating Officer, is going to provide an update on the PPP program and our technology initiatives. Scott?Scott J. McLean -- President and Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Harris. Turning to slide 9, our third quarter adjusted pre-provision net revenue was $290 million net of the effects of the previously noted IPO. The PPNR bars is split into two portions, the bottom portion represents what we think of as generally recurring income while the top portion denotes the PPNR we've received from PPP loans. During the course of the Paycheck Protection Program, our performance of producing on a relative basis three times more than the industry average, will result in approximately $460 million in additional income to the company, which represents capital that ultimately benefits all shareholders.To be specific, PPP-related revenue has equaled $380 million, and there remains $83 million in capitalized income net of origination costs that will be recognized over time. Although PPP-related revenue will decline, we're enthusiastic about the longer-term benefit of adding approximately 20,000 small business customers and strengthening relationships with 57,000 existing customers. Turning to slide 10 reflects some of the highlights from our times performance that I noted earlier. Regarding forgiveness, we've received $7.9 billion of applications or nearly 80% of the total volume.$6.7 billion has been approved for forgiveness by the SBA, and $3.1 billion of PPP loans remain on our balance sheet at quarter-end. Turning to slide 11, this slide illustrates the longer-term benefit of this activity. Specifically, as a result of our outreach, we see growing relationships with many of the 77,000 PPP participating customers. These customers collectively have contributed approximately $6 billion of our deposit growth, and new non-PPP loan balances exceed $550 million to this collection of customers. More specifically, of the PPP 2020 vintage, the spring 2020 vintage, 14,000 new-to-bank customers, approximately 54% are now appear to be utilizing us as their primary -- for their primary operating accounts.This percentage as we've noted previously has been growing nicely each quarter, and we are seeing similar growth trends with the PPP 2021 vintage of 5,000 new-to-bank customers, which started earlier this year. Turning to slide 12, recall that in our investor presentations we provide a detailed slide of our major technology projects. Today, we want to just highlight two. Many of you may recall in April, FDIC Chair, Jelena McWilliams was quoted as saying that her number one concern for the banking industry was its reliance on aging core loan and deposit systems. So where do we stand on this topic? As of February 2019, you'll recall that we completed the replacement of our three legacy core loan systems and now have virtually all of our loans on our new modern core.In 2023, we expect to complete the final phase of our core modernization journey with a conversion from our legacy deposit systems to our new enterprise core system. To put this in perspective, a big core accounting firm recently reported that of the top 100 banks in the United States, 93 remain on one or more older first generation cores. Six are utilizing a modern core on only a portion of their loan and deposit ecosystem. And Zions is the only bank approaching the ability to utilize a modern core for the entire enterprise. Interestingly, you were starting to hear about some digital first core systems.While these provide the most advanced architectural elements available and were generally designed for digital-only banks, none have yet to be proven usable on a scale or complexity required by the largest banks. So, why does this matter? At a high level, implementation of one core solution across all lines of business, all products, and all geographies greatly reduces complexity, enhances our resiliency, and creates adaptability for a rapidly changing technology environment that lies ahead. More specifically, the architecture is, as noted on this slide, parameter driven, meaning we can quickly turn off and on or adjust features without reprogramming or testing for months.It utilizes one data model, a huge advantage in the digital world, and it is natively real-time and API-enabled. This collection of characteristics and others will greatly reduce the time it takes to introduce new products and capabilities. As an example, our new core was an important contributor to producing PPP revenue exceeding $460 million. Within a matter of days, we were able to introduce the PPP product and increase the number of business-related loans on our system from approximately 40,000 to over 95,000, with loan boarding occurring in minutes.Most would agree this represents a significant early return on our core replacement investment. As you talked to other banks, they will say that their older first generation core loan and deposit systems have been adapted to mimic real time, utilized API, and synthesized dozens of data models. Well, we were doing that as well in our loan systems and continue to do that in our deposit system until we convert. But all of these technologies -- all of these technology gymnastics that take place generally and what is referred to as middleware absolutely introduce complexity, risk, and cost. Regarding one additional highlight, I'd like to note that our core systems seven-day processing capability.Most of the world outside of the United States operates on seven-day processing. When we implemented the loan portion of our new core, we adopted seven-day processing. However, as the U.S. deposit market has still not adopted seven-day processing, we chose to convert back to five-day processing in advance of our 2023 deposit conversion. The point is that we were literally able to turn this global capability off over a weekend in August and can turn it back on when the U.S. adopts seven-day processing.This slide also conveys numerous other customer and employee facing benefits which I'd be happy to expand on the Q&A. Turning to slide 13, my last slide. While we have been highly focused on our industry leading work regarding core modernization, I wanted to highlight one of our numerous new customer-facing capabilities. Earlier in the year we converted 610,000 consumers to our new online mobile platform.While time does not allow us to review all the details of this new platform, we are gratified with the early acceptance by consumers as measured by ratings in the Apple App and Google App stores. You can see that we are on par with the largest U.S. banks and are top tier with our peers. The rollout of this new online mobile system to approximately 150,000 small business clients will occur in 2022. And with this client base, we are already perceived to be on par with or superior to our global competitors.With that, I'll turn the remainder of the time over to Paul Burdiss, our Chief Financial Officer.Paul E. Burdiss -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Scott, and good evening, everyone, and thanks for joining us. More than three quarters of our revenue is in the form of net interest income, which is significantly influenced by loan and deposit growth and associated interest rates. As such, I'll begin my comments on slide 14 with a review of these results. Although the average total loans were down in the third quarter by 3.7% when compared to the second quarter, we experienced average loan growth when excluding PPP loans. And on a period end basis, that growth was $661 million or 1.4%. The strongest linked quarter growth was in commercial construction at nearly $270 million.This is a result of increased construction activity on previously established lines of credit. We reported strength in commercial and industrial loans, which increased more than $280 million or 2%. We ran promotions during the quarter on owner occupied and home equity loans, which increased $250 million and $107 million respectively. Declines were reported in PPP loans, down $1.4 billion, as Scott previously noted and term commercial real estate which declined more than $220 million. In the third quarter, we reported a more modest decline in residential mortgage balances than we have in recent quarters, down nearly $130 million.With a strong held-for-investment pipeline of mortgages, we may see some further stabilization or possibly growth in residential mortgages in the near term. One final note on loan growth. Relative to periods prior to the pandemic, revolving line of credit utilization has declined several percentage points. Using the third quarter of 2019 as the benchmark quarter, our revolving line utilization rate was 39.5% as compared to 33.7% in the third quarter of 2021, which was essentially from the prior quarter. Although revolving loan balances did increase from the prior quarter of about $200 million, the lending commitments increased about $700 million. As I've noted in the past, deposits have been and remain the driver of balance sheet growth over the past several quarters and in the third quarter.On the right side of this page, average deposits increased 3.7% from the prior quarter relative to the year ago period. Average deposits increased 16%. Average noninterest-bearing deposits increased 4.9% over the prior quarter and 24% compared to the prior-year period. Our noninterest-bearing deposits make up one-half of average total deposit. The yield on average total loans increased slightly from the prior quarter, which is attributable to the 6.7% yield in the PPP loan portfolio. Excluding PPP loans, the yield declined 8 basis points to 3.59% from 3.67%. Deposit costs remain low. Our cost of total deposits fell to 3 basis points in the third quarter.Moving to slide 15, we show our securities and money market investment portfolios over the last five quarters. The size of the period end securities portfolio increased by $6 billion over the past year to $21 billion, while money market investments increased more than $7.5 billion to $11.9 billion. The combination of securities and money market investments has risen to nearly 40% of total earning assets at period end, which compares to an average level in 2019 prior to the pandemic of 26%. We continue to exercise caution regarding duration extension risk by purchasing bonds with relatively short duration both in the current and in an upward shock rate shock scenario.The $3.6 billion of security purchases from the quarter had an average yield of 1.53%. Slide 16 is an overview of net interest income and the net interest margin. The chart on the left shows the recent five quarter trend for both. The net interest margin in the white boxes has declined over the past year, reflecting the rise in excess liquidity as described on the prior page. For the third quarter, this growth in excess liquidity is referenced in the chart on the right as the strong growth in deposits has impacted the composition of earning assets to a larger concentration and lower yielding money market and securities investments. The weighted average yield of our securities and money market investments is just 1.07% and with that concentration increasing by 4 percentage points in the quarter, it weighed on the net interest margin.In fact, I estimate that the increase in money market investments has accounted for 33 basis points of the 45 basis point net interest margin compression over the past year. Slide 17 shows information about our interest rate sensitivity. Focusing on the upper left quadrant as a general statement, our asset sensitivity has increased as deposits have been invested in short term money market assets. This increase in estimated rate sensitivity assumes that the incremental deposits have modestly shorter duration characteristics when compared to deposits on our balance sheet prior to the recent deposit surge.We are continuing to deploy deposit driven cash into securities which helps to moderate the natural the natural asset sensitivity. However, with continued strong deposit growth and higher prepayment rates on mortgage loans and securities, our estimated interest rate sensitivity was similar to the second quarter level, such that in an interest rate environment that has shocked immediately 100 basis points higher than the current level, our net interest income at the 12 month horizon is estimated to be higher by 12%. As previously noted, we may continue to add interest rate swaps, including forward starting swaps, which would help to temper our natural asset sensitivity.On slide 18, building on a good second quarter, customer related fees increased an additional 9% in the third quarter to $151 million. Notably, activity based fees such as card fees, merchant services and retail and business banking fees remain strong and have grown to the level of two years ago prior to the pandemic. This improvement added to continued strength in loan related, capital markets, and wealth management revenues. Non-interest expenses on slide 19 were essentially unchanged from the prior quarter at $429 million. Adjusted no-interest expense increased 3% or $13 million to $432 million.The linked quarter increase in adjusted non-interest expense is primarily due to employee compensation. The increase was associated with higher base salaries and profitability driven long- and short-term compensation. Other noninterest expense includes a $4 million success fee reversal associated with the mark-to-market loss in our SBIC as compared to the $9 million success fee accrual recognized in the second quarter. Slide 20 details our long term credit losses or ACL. In the upper left we showed the recent declining trend in the ACL to $529 million at the end of the third quarter or 1.11% of non-PPP loans.The chart on the lower right side of this page shows the three broad categories that resulted in a decline of $45 million. More than 60% of the change was attributable to changes in the portfolio mix and composition. Our updated outlook is found on slide 21. And as a reminder, this is our outlook for financial performance in the third quarter of 2022 as compared to the actual results reported for the third quarter of 2021. The quarters in between are subject to normal seasonality and my comments are subject to our earlier reference to forward-looking statements found on slide 2.Due to the degree of uncertainty on the timing of customers submitting requests and the SBA approving those requests, our outlook for loan growth excludes PPP loans. We are more optimistic about loan growth now than we were in July, and as such, we are increasing our outlook to moderately increasing from slightly to moderately increasing led by core C&I including our promotional owner occupied loan products. We expect net interest income also excluding PPP loan revenue to increase over the next year as compression of loan and securities yields will be more than offset by continued deployment of cash into term securities and our more favorable outlook for growth in non-PPP loans.The current quarter's customer related fees are the highest we have reported. Building on such a strong third quarter, we are reducing our outlook for customer related fee one year from now to be stable to slightly increasing from moderately increasing. We are adjusting our expectation for adjusted noninterest expense to be moderately increasing from slightly increasing. We remain disciplined on expense control. However, increased business activity, emerging inflationary trends, and continued investment in enabling technologies will place upward pressure on noninterest expense over the near term.And finally, with respect to capital management, we remain comfortable that our philosophy of lower-than-average risk, combined with stronger-than-median capital, is the right formula for creating long-term shareholder value. Our capital, measured by common equity Tier 1 relative to risk-weighted assets, remains well above the peer median. As we consider the balance between capital ratios and our risk profile, we believe that we have capacity for continued active capital management in the near to medium term, so long as the current macroeconomic and credit trends continue to be favorable.This concludes our prepared remarks. Towanda, please open the line for questions.