  OperatorThank you all for standing by, and welcome to the CINF first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions]. Please also note that today's call is being recorded. I'll now turn the call over to your host, Dennis McDaniel, investor relations officer. Sir, you may now begin.Dennis McDaniel -- Investor Relations Officer

 



 Hello. This is Dennis McDaniel at Cincinnati Financial. Thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. Late yesterday, we issued a news release on our results, along with our supplemental financial package, including our quarter-end investment portfolio. To find copies of any of these documents, please visit our investor website, cinfin.com/investors. The shortest route to the information is the quarterly results link in the navigation menu on the far left. On this call, you'll first hear from chairman, president and chief executive officer, Steve Johnston; and then from chief financial officer, Mike Sewell. After their prepared remarks, investors participating on the call may ask questions.At that time, some responses may be made by others in the room with us, including chief investment officer, Marty Hollenbeck; and Cincinnati insurance's president, Steve Spray; chief claims officer, Marc Schambow; and senior vice president of corporate finance, Theresa Hoffer. First, please note that some of the matters to be discussed today are forward-looking. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties. With respect to these risks and uncertainties, we direct your attention to our news release and to our various filings with the SEC. Also, a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures was provided with the news release. Statutory accounting data is prepared in accordance with statutory accounting rules and therefore, is not reconciled to GAAP. Now I'll turn it over the call to Steve. 

 



Steve Johnston -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Dennis, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today to hear more about our first quarter results. It was another quarter of good operating performance. Our agency-focused strategy led to profitable growth and reflects well on the skill and dedication of our associates and excellent relationships with terrific independent agents. We reported a net loss of $273 million for the quarter, due to the recognition of a reduction in the fair value of securities held in our equity portfolio. Non-GAAP operating income for the first quarter of 2022 was up $31 million or 14% versus a year ago. Our 89.9% first quarter property casualty combined ratio was 1.3 percentage points better than last year's first quarter. The current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe loss effects rose slightly compared with accident year 2021 measured at three months, reflecting an increase in large losses for our property lines of business. We again managed our business to healthy levels of policy retention with meaningful average renewal price increases for each of our property casualty insurance segments. Policy retention rates for both commercial and personal lines improved from a year ago to the upper 80% range. Consolidated property casualty net written premiums rose 12% for the first quarter of 2022. Our pricing segmentation efforts continue to support what we believe is profitable growth as our underwriters work to retain and write more profitable accounts while taking appropriate action on opportunities that we determine have inadequate pricing.

 



 We also believe renewal pricing during the first quarter was again ahead of our estimate for prospective loss cost trends for each property casualty segment. Our commercial lines insurance segment continued to experience estimated average renewal price increases in the mid-single-digit percentage range, similar to the fourth quarter. In the first quarter, personal lines average renewal price increases slowed by a small amount compared to the fourth quarter, remaining in the low single-digit range. Our excess and surplus lines insurance segment continued in the high single-digit range. Our commercial lines segment grew first quarter 2022 net written premiums by 8% and with a combined ratio of 92.3%. Our personal lines segment, net written premium grew 11%, reflecting our continued planned expansion of high net worth business produced by our agencies. The segment's first year -- first quarter combined ratio of 83.9%, improved 17.2 percentage points from a year ago, driven by lower catastrophe losses. Our excess and surplus lines segment had an 85.9% combined ratio and continued strong growth with first quarter 2022 net write premiums rising by 25%. The Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global, each had a nice quarter with healthy growth. Cincinnati Re grew net written premiums by 30% for the first quarter of 2022 with a combined ratio in the mid-90% range. Cincinnati Global, grew net written premiums by 24%, with a combined ratio also in the mid-90% range. Our life insurance subsidiary generated first quarter 2022 net income of $10 million, matching last year's first quarter and grew term life insurance earned premiums by 6%. I'll conclude with the value creation ratio, our primary measure of long-term financial performance. VCR was negative 6.9% for the quarter, while net income before investment gains or losses contributed 1.9 percentage points, lower investment valuations during the quarter resulted in the investment gains or losses component contributing negative 8.6 points. Now our chief financial officer, Mike Sewell, will highlight several other important aspects of our financial performance.Mike Sewell -- Chief Financial Officer Thank, you, Steve, and thanks to all of you for joining us today. Investment income again grew at a good pace, up 6% for the first quarter of 2022 compared with the same period a year ago. First quarter dividend income was up 12% and net equity securities purchase totaled $34 million. Bond interest income grew 4% in the first quarter while the pre-tax average yield of 4.01% for the quarter was down 13 basis points from a year ago. The average pre-tax yield for the total of purchased taxable and tax-exempt bonds during the first quarter of 2022 was 3.64%. We again purchased additional fixed maturity securities with net purchases during the quarter totaling $109 million. Valuation changes for our investment portfolio during the first quarter of 2022 were unfavorable in aggregate for both our stockholdings and our bond holdings. The overall net decrease was approximately $1.4 billion before tax effects, including a net decrease of $746 million for unrealized gains in our bond portfolio. At the end of the first quarter, total investment portfolio net appreciated value was approximately $6.6 billion, including $46 million for our bond portfolio. Cash flow again, helped to grow investment income. Cash flow from operating activities for the first quarter 2022 generated at $198 million, compared to $354 million a year ago. Balancing strategic investments in our business with expense containment initiatives continues to be a priority. The first quarter 2022 property casualty underwriting expense ratio was 2.2 percentage points higher than last year. Most of the increase was from higher accruals for profit sharing commissions for agencies and related expenses. Regarding loss reserves, we aim for a consistent approach by targeting net amounts in the upper half of the actuarially estimated range of net loss and loss expense reserves.   As we do each quarter, we consider new information such as paid losses and case reserves and then updated estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses by accident year and line of business. During the first quarter of 2022, we experienced $41 million of property casualty net favorable development on prior accident years have benefited the combined ratio by 2.5 percentage points. In recent years, we've experienced significant growth in commercial umbrella coverage within our commercial casualty lines of business, including 16% in 2021 and as industry pricing for umbrella has been strong. Umbrella losses tend to be frequently relatively infrequent with high severity and we recently experienced an elevated level of large losses, particularly for accident year 2019. Due to increased uncertainty for our umbrella business, we strengthened reserves for certain accident years and estimated ultimate losses for accident year 2022 at what we believe is a prudent level. On an all-lines basis by accident year, net reserve development for the quarter was favorable by $46 million for 2021, $24 million for 2022, unfavorable by 2020 by $28 million for 2019, and unfavorable by $1 million in aggregate for accident years prior to 2019. Now let me turn to capital management. We continue to follow a consistent approach that includes share repurchases as part of maintenance intended to offset the issuance of shares through equity compensation plans. However, changing circumstances or opportunities can influence us to repurchase more or less than historical averages. We believe that our quarter end financial strength was excellent and provides ample financial flexibility. During the first quarter of 2022, we repurchased 375,000 shares at an average price per share of $120.05. I'll conclude my prepared remarks as I usually do, with a summary of first quarter contributions to book value per share. They represent the main drivers of our value creation ratio. Property casualty underwriting increased book value by $0.81. Life insurance operations increased book value $0.06. Investment income, other than life insurance and net of noninsurance items added $0.53. Net investment gains and losses for the fixed income portfolio decreased book value per share by $3.67. Net investment gains and losses for the equity portfolio decreased book value by $3.33. And we declared $0.69 per share in dividends to shareholders. The net effect was a book value decrease of $6.29 per share during the first quarter to $75.43 per share. And now I'll turn the call back over to Steve.Steve Johnston -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mike. It's satisfying to see the steady execution of our initiatives producing these strong results. March and April brought a return of business travel and a return of our headquarters associates working together in person. It's wonderful to see so many familiar faces in the hallway and to be able to get out from behind our desk to visit with agents in our field teams across the country. This return to a bit of normalcy has produced an energy you can feel across our organization, bringing with it lots of optimism for the future of Cincinnati Financial. As a reminder, with Mike and me today are Steve Spray, Marc Schambow, Marty Hollenbeck, and Theresa Hoffer. Jesse, please open the call for questions. 