  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Paycom Software third quarter 2021 quarterly results conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. James Samford, head of investor relations. Please go ahead.James Samford -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you and welcome to Paycom's third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Certain statements made on this call that are not historical facts, including those related to our future plans, objectives, and expected performance are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent our outlook only as of the date of this conference call. While we believe any forward-looking statements made on this call are reasonable, actual results may differ materially because the statements are based on our current expectations and subject to risks and uncertainties. These risks of uncertainties are discussed in our filings with the SEC, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q. You should refer to and consider these factors when relying on such forward-looking information. Any forward-looking statement made speaks only as of the date on which it is made and we do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Also, during today's call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, adjusted gross profit, adjusted gross margin, and certain adjusted expenses.We use these non-GAAP financial measures to review and assess our performance and for planning purposes. The reconciliation schedule showing GAAP versus non-GAAP results is included in the press release that we issued after the close of the market today and is available on our website at investors.paycom.com. I'll now turn the call over to Chad Richison, Paycom's president and chief executive officer. Chad. Chad Richison -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, James, and thank you to everyone joining our call today. I will spend a few minutes on the highlights of our third quarter 2021 results and our progress on key initiatives. Following that, Craig will review our financials and our guidance, and then we will take questions. We delivered very strong third quarter 2021 results with revenue of $256 million, representing robust year-over-year revenue growth of 30.4 percent, which was above the top end of our guidance range. We continue to see strong demand for our products across our target market and we are having great success attracting new clients. We have reinvested and will continue to reinvest revenue outside into the business while still delivering attractive adjusted EBITDA margins. With these strong results, we are once again raising our full-year guidance, which Craig will discuss in more detail. Our innovative solutions continue to gain popularity and we are being recognized by industry organizations for their impact on the human capital management industry. In September, Paycom was once again awarded the 2021 Top HR Product honor at the HR Technology Conference for our newest innovation, BETI. This marks the third consecutive year for Paycom to receive such honors, which included the Direct Data Exchange in 2019, Manager on-the-Go in 2020, and now, BETI in 2021. It is precisely the combination of these three industry-first, coupled with our comprehensive single database that is transforming the human capital management industry and turning employee usage in easy-to-use solutions in the key buying criteria for clients. BETI is a self-service payroll technology that allows employees to do their own payroll and we are having great success in the market. As a reminder, with BETI, employees submit their own time work and make their own benefits selections, schedule deductions, manage tax statuses, remit expenses, request time off, and do all the things that an employee does to calculate a check. BETI does the rest and works with the employee to ensure a perfect payroll for them prior to the payroll. Employees doing their own payroll is the only way payroll should be done. I am very pleased with the market response to BETI and I continue to expect all clients to eventually deploy BETI. Our advertising and marketing efforts continue to deliver strong demo leads that are fueling our revenue growth. And we will intend to continue to spend aggressively in the coming quarters to further expand our market share in the large and expanding HCM TAM. Our advertising strategy is working and we are deliberately reinvesting revenue upside into advertising, marketing, and product innovation. You've heard me say consistently that we are willing to trade a point of margin for a point of growth, but we are unwilling to trade a point of margin for a point of nothing. And that philosophy has served us well over the years and you can see it in our results. On the sales front, we are seeing success with both smaller and larger companies. I'm particularly pleased with the traction we are having in our recently expanded target market range of companies with up to 10,000 employees, where our messaging around ease-of-use in the employee self-service is resonating. Finally, it's great to see all the Paycom faces back in the office even if behind masks. We have successfully transitioned nearly all employees back to our offices around the country and it is great to see we are getting our office culture back. While we accomplished extraordinary things working remotely, I believe we're even better together. Many of our new hires are experiencing for the first time the daily buzz and enthusiasm that makes Paycom a unique place to work. While our sales teams are still selling virtually, we are already seeing the benefits of everyone being safely back in the office sharing best practices, and collaborating more closely. In summary, Q3 was a very strong quarter, driven by record new client revenue. The investments we've made throughout 2020 and to date in 2021 have made Paycom more differentiated than ever and we are seeing the benefits across the sale, service, and product organizations. As a reminder, we have approximately five percent market share of a growing TAM and a long runway ahead of us. I want to thank all of our hardworking and dedicated employees for their grit and commitment to success. With that, I'll turn the call over to Craig for a review of our financials and guidance. Craig.Craig Boelte -- Chief Financial Officer Before I review our third quarter 2021 results and our outlook for the fourth quarter and full-year 2021, I would like to remind everyone that my comments related to certain financial measures will be on a non-GAAP basis. We are very pleased with our third quarter results with total revenues of $256.2 million, representing growth of 30.4 percent over the comparable prior-year period, driven primarily by strong new client revenue growth. Within total revenues, recurring revenue was $251.3 million for the third quarter of 2021, representing 98 percent of total revenues for the quarter and growing 30.4 percent from the comparable prior-year period. Total adjusted gross profit for the third quarter was $214.8 million, representing an adjusted gross margin of 83.8 percent. Third quarter margins were impacted by both our return to office and our aggressive hiring of the individuals needed to service our current and future growth. For 2021, we expect to deliver a very strong adjusted gross margin of approximately 85 percent. Adjusted total administrative expenses were $142.5 million for the third quarter, as compared to $113.3 million in the third quarter of 2020. Adjusted sales and marketing expense for the third quarter of 2021 was $66.3 million or 25.9 percent of revenues. Our marketing strategy continues to generate strong demo leads and we plan to continue to invest in advertising, given the strong return on our investment we're seeing. As Chad suggested, growth remains a top priority and advertising is a productive lever that we have continued to deploy to drive revenue growth. Adjusted R and D expense was $29.3 million in the third quarter of 2021 or 11.4 percent of total revenues. Adjusted total R and D costs, including the capitalized portion, were $40.7 million in the third quarter of 2021, compared to $29.8 million in the prior-year period. Even in this tight labor market, we're having good success attracting and retaining talent. Adjusted EBITDA was $89.7 million in the third quarter of 2021 or 35 percent of total revenues, compared to $67.5 million in the third quarter of 2020 or 34.3 percent of total revenues. Our GAAP net income for the third quarter was $30.4 million or $0.52 per diluted share, versus $27.5 million or $0.47 per diluted share in the prior-year period based on approximately 58 million shares in both periods. Non-GAAP net income for the third quarter of 2021 was $53.6 million or $0.92 per diluted share, versus $40.6 million or $0.70 per diluted share in the prior-year period. We expect non-cash stock-based compensation for the fourth quarter of 2021 to be approximately $22 million to $24 million. For the full year, we anticipate non-cash stock-based compensation will be approximately $98 million to $100 million. For 2021, we anticipate our full-year effective income tax rate to be 23 percent to 25 percent on a GAAP basis. On a non-GAAP basis, we anticipate our full-year effective income tax rate to be 25 percent to 27 percent. Turning to the balance sheet. We ended the third quarter of 2021 with cash and cash equivalents of $230.9 million and total debt of $29.6 million. Cash from operations was $83.2 million for the third quarter, reflecting our strong revenue performance and the profitability of our business model. The average daily balance of funds held on behalf of clients was approximately $1.6 billion in the third quarter of 2021. During the third quarter of 2021, we've repurchased approximately 61,000 shares for a total of roughly $29 million. Through September 30th of 2021, Paycom has repurchased nearly 4.3 million shares since 2016 for a total of approximately $484 million, and we currently have roughly $271 million remaining in our buyback program. Shifting to guidance. We are pleased to provide strong fourth quarter guidance that reflects the robust performance year to date and we are raising our full-year 2021 outlook as a result. Our Q4 and full-year guidance are as follows. For the fourth quarter of 2021, we expect total revenues in the range of $274.5 million to $276.5 million, representing a growth rate over the comparable prior-year period of approximately 25 percent at the midpoint of the range. We expect adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter in the range of $103 million to $105 million, representing an adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 37.7 percent at the midpoint of the range. For fiscal 2021, we are raising our expected revenue range to $1,045,000,000 to $1,047,000,000, up from $1,036,000,000 to $1,038,000,000 or approximately 24 percent year-over-year growth at the midpoint of the range. We expect full-year adjusted EBITDA in the range of $413 million to $415 million, representing an adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 39.6 percent at the midpoint of the range. To conclude, we are very pleased with the performance in the quarter and how the full year has been shaping up. Product differentiation, outstanding customer service, and our use of effective advertising, and sales levers are all contributing to our strong results and we have a long runway ahead of us to continue to deliver rapid growth for years to come. With that, we will open the line for questions. Operator? 