  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Fifth Third Bancorp third-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions]. I would now like to turn the conference over to your speaker today, Chris Doll, director of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Chris Doll -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thank you for joining us. Today, we'll be discussing our financial results for the third quarter of 2021. Please review the cautionary statements on our materials, which can be found in our earnings release and presentation. These materials contain reconciliations to non-GAAP measures, along with information pertaining to the use of non-GAAP measures as well as forward-looking statements about Fifth Third's performance. We undertake no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this call. This morning, I'm joined by our CEO, Greg Carmichael; CFO, Jamie Leonard; president, Tim Spence; and chief credit officer, Richard Stein. Following prepared remarks by Greg and Jamie, we will open the call up for questions.Let me turn the call over now to Greg for his comments. Greg Carmichael -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Chris, and thank all of you for joining us this morning. Earlier today, we reported a third-quarter net income of $704 million or $0.97 per share. On a core basis, we earned $0.94 per share. Once again, we delivered strong and steady financial results while fully supporting our customers, communities, and employees. During the quarter, we generated an adjusted ROTCE of nearly 19%, which represents the fifth straight quarter exceeding 18%. We generated period-end C&I loan growth of 4% compared to the prior quarter, excluding the impact of PPP. Commercial loan production increased 5% from last quarter, representing the strongest quarter since the fourth quarter of 2019. We generated strong consumer household growth of 3% compared to last year, with growth in every region in our footprint, reflecting the continued success of our branch and digital initiatives. And as expected, we generated positive operating leverage on a year-over-year basis. Our performance this quarter reflected strong business outcomes across our franchise, resulting in improved and diversified revenues. This was combined with disciplined balance sheet management, expense management, we had another quarter of benign credit results. We closed the Provide acquisition and the sale of HSA deposits in the quarter to improve long-term growth and profitability. Provide, a leading fintech company serving healthcare practices will further accelerate profitable relationship growth. The seller HSA deposits is part of our multiyear strategy to simplify the organization and prioritize investments in order to generate differentiated outcomes for our customers and shareholders. Despite continued pressure from low-interest rates, adjusted PPNR increased 4% compared to the year-ago quarter highlighting the strong results from our fee-based businesses in retail, mortgage, commercial, and wealth and asset management. Excluding the impact of PPP, average total loans increased 1% compared to last quarter. Reflecting strong commercial loan production as well as strength in our indirect auto through residential mortgage portfolios. Commercial loan production increased 5% sequentially with record quarters in corporate banking and middle market. Despite some of the challenges we have been hearing from our customers, including supply chain constraints and labor shortages, the strong production was led by our healthcare, renewable energy, and retail verticals and was well diversified geographically. Our commercial lending production trends, pipelines, and retention of the client relationship all support continued loan growth. As it relates to Provide, we are very pleased with the progress we have seen so far. We are even more excited about the opportunities for continued growth. As we have previously mentioned, we expect strong origination volumes in 2022, reflecting a robust pipeline, and of product capabilities and key talent hires, provides supports our relationship approach with approximately two-thirds of customers having either a deposit account or a payments relationship with Fifth Third. During the quarter, we recorded a net benefit to credit losses as well as historically low net charge-offs of eight basis points, reflecting continued improvement in both our commercial and consumer portfolios. In addition to historical low credit losses, we experienced another quarter of improvement in criticized assets and NPAs. Our criticized assets declined nearly 20%. Our NPA ratio declined nine basis points sequentially. Our NPA to NPL ratios this quarter have reverted back to pre-pandemic levels. Our strong craft performance reflects disciplined client selection, conservative underwriting, and continued support from fiscal and monetary government times programs. Our balance sheet and earnings power remained very strong. As we've said before, we remain focused on deploying capital into organic growth opportunities, evaluating strategic nonbank opportunities, paying a strong dividend, and share repurchases. Bank acquisitions remain a lower priority. I'd like to once again thank our employees. I very much appreciate the way you have continually risen to the occasion for our customers, communities, and each other. I'm very proud that in addition to producing strong financial results, we have also continued to take delivered options to improve the lives of our customers and the well-being of our communities. For our customers, we are excited to roll out Genie, our new AI-driven digital system in the fourth quarter. This will drive targeted marketing capabilities, digital engagement, and improved customer retention. For our communities, we made a $15 million contribution to our foundation this quarter as part of our $2.8 billion commitment to accelerate racial equity, equality, and inclusion in our communities. In total, we have contributed $40 million in philanthropic support since the end of last year. We continue to make targeted investments to accelerate economic revitalization as you may have seen in last week's announcement, a Fifth Third Neighborhood Investment Program. This innovative initiative further demonstrates our commitment to being an ESG leader in addition to other recent proof points, including charting over $6 billion toward our $8 billion renewable energy goal to be achieved by 2025, announcing a new position about climate risk to focus on identifying, measuring, and managing the physical and transition risk of our clients and a robust transparent and peer-leading ESG disclosure. In summary, we believe our balancing strength, diversified revenues, and continued focus on disciplined management throughout the company will serve us well into 2022 and beyond. We expect to generate positive operating leverage on a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter and also for the full year in 2021. We remain committed to generate sustainable long-term value and consistently producing through-the-cycle top quartile results. With that, I'll turn it over to Jim to discuss our third-quarter results and our current outlook.Jamie Leonard -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Greg, and thank all of you for joining us today. We're very pleased with our financial results this quarter, reflecting focused execution throughout the bank. Our quarterly results included solid revenue growth and continued discipline on both expenses and credit. The reported earnings included a $21 million after-tax benefit or $0.03 per share from the three items noted on Page 2 of the release. Our strong business performance throughout the bank is reflected in our return metrics. We produced an adjusted ROA of 1.32% and an adjusted ROTCE excluding AOCI of 18.7%. Improvements in our loan portfolio credit quality resulted in a $63 million release to our credit reserves and an ACL ratio of 200 basis points, compared to 206 last quarter. Combined with our historically low net charge-offs, we had a $42 million net benefit to the provision for credit losses. Moving to the income statement. Net interest income of approximately $1.2 billion increased 2% compared to the year-ago quarter, reflecting the benefits of our balance sheet positioning, continuing benefits from PPP income, and income from our Ginnie Mae forbearance loan purchases. Our NII results relative to the second quarter included a $6 million reduction in PPP income, a $4 million decline in prepayment penalties in our investment portfolio, and the impact of lower-earning asset yields, partially offset by a higher day count and a reduction in long-term debt. Our allocation to bullet and locked-out structures is currently 60% of the total investment portfolio which is expected to continue to provide ongoing NII protection in this low rate environment. On the liability side, we reduced our interest-bearing core deposit costs another basis point this quarter to four basis points. With a highly asset-sensitive balance sheet and over $30 billion of excess liquidity, we continue to be well-positioned to benefit when interest rates rise while also remaining well hedged if rates remain low, given our securities portfolio and derivatives. Total reported noninterest income increased 13% sequentially, impacted by a $60 million gain associated with the disposition of HSA deposits as previously communicated. Adjusted noninterest income increased 3%, driven by strong mortgage banking, treasury management, leasing, and wealth and asset management revenues. Commercial banking revenue, which achieved record results for the past two quarters remained solid as strength in M&A advisory fees, particularly in our healthcare vertical was more than offset by lower corporate bond fees. Compared to the year-ago quarter, adjusted noninterest income increased 13% with improvement in every single caption, reflecting both the underlying strength in our lines of business as well as the robust economic rebound over the past year. Our total noninterest revenue was 41% of total revenue in the third quarter. Reported noninterest expense increased 2% compared to the second quarter, primarily due to the $15 million foundation contribution. Adjusted expenses were flat sequentially as an increase in marketing expense associated with Momentum Banking and increased T&E expense were offset by a decrease in compensation and benefits expense. Compared to the year-ago quarter, adjusted noninterest expense increased 2%, primarily driven by an increase in performance-based compensation, reflecting strong business results, servicing expenses associated with Ginnie Mae loan purchases, and the impact of the Provide acquisition. These items were partially offset by lower card and processing expenses due to contract renegotiation and lower net occupancy expenses. On a year-over-year basis, total adjusted fees have increased 13%, compared to just 2% expense growth. Moving to the balance sheet. Total average portfolio loans and leases declined half of 8% sequentially, including the headwind from PPP loans. Excluding PPP, average loans, and leases increased 1%, with period-end loans up 1.5%, pointing to positive momentum as we head into the fourth quarter. Average total consumer portfolio loans increased 2% as continued strength in the auto portfolio and growth in residential mortgage balances were partially offset by declines in home equity and credit card balances. While we did not retain incremental conforming mortgage originations in the third quarter, we have elected to retain approximately 400 million of our retail mortgage production for the balance sheet in the fourth quarter and we'll continue to evaluate the economic trade-offs given our balance sheet capacity in this environment. Average commercial loans declined 2% compared to the prior quarter due entirely to PPP forgiveness. Excluding PPP, average commercial loans increased around half of 8% with C&I loans up 2%. Production was robust across the board, up 5% compared to the prior quarter, with both corporate and middle-market banking generating record production, which was well diversified geographically. As a result, period-end C&I loans, excluding PPP, increased 4%. Revolver utilization of 31% was stable compared to the prior quarter. However, it is worth noting that total commitments have increased approximately $5 billion since the end of last year, driven by new client acquisition and an increase in demand from existing clients in anticipation of future business growth. Average CRE loans were down 3% sequentially with lower balances in mortgage and construction driven by elevated payoffs in areas most impacted by the pandemic, reflecting our cautious approach to those sectors. Our securities portfolio was stable sequentially. We continue to reinvest portfolio cash flows but will remain patient on deploying the excess liquidity. Assuming no meaningful changes to our economic outlook, we would expect to begin our excess cash deployment when investment yields move north of the 200 basis point level. We remain optimistic that continued GDP growth in the Fed's eventual tapering of bond purchases will present more attractive risk-return opportunities in the future. Average other short-term investments, which includes interest-bearing cash, remain elevated, reflecting growth in core deposits since the onset of the pandemic, which are up 6% year over year. Moving to credit. Our strong credit performance this quarter once again reflects our disciplined client selection, conservative underwriting, prudent balance sheet management, and the continued benefit of fiscal and monetary stimulus programs and improvement in the broader economy. As Greg mentioned, the third quarter net charge-off ratio of eight basis points was historically low and improved 8 basis points sequentially. Nonperforming assets declined 15% with the NPA ratio declining nine basis points sequentially to 52 basis points. The decline in criticized assets reflected significant improvements in retail nonessential and leisure, consistent with the reopening of the economy and higher activity in those sectors as well as improvements in our energy and leveraged loan portfolios. We continue to focus on segments of nonowner-occupied commercial real estate particularly central business district hotels as activity has not yet returned to pre-pandemic levels. Moving to the ACL. Our base case macroeconomic scenario is relatively similar to last quarter, which assumes the labor market continues to improve, and job growth continues to strengthen, with unemployment reaching 4% in the first quarter of 2022 and ending our three-year reasonable and supportable period at around 3.5%. We did not change our scenario weights of 60% to the base and 20% to the upside and downside scenarios. However, our ACL release was lower this quarter as the improvement in the underlying economic forecast decelerated from the second quarter. Additionally, the ACL requirement in the downside scenario worsened compared to the second quarter due to a forecasted slower pace of recovery and a larger increase in unemployment. If the ACL were based 100% on the downside scenario, the ACL would be $788 million higher. If the ACL were 100% weighted to the baseline scenario, the reserve would be $176 million lower. While the favorable economic backdrop and our base case expectations point to further improvement in the economy, there are several key risks factored into our downside scenario, which could play out given the uncertain environment. In addition to COVID, we continue to monitor the economic and lending implications of the supply chain and labor market constraints that currently exist. Our September 30th allowance incorporates our best estimate to the economic environment with lower unemployment and continued improvement in credit quality. Moving to capital. Our capital levels remained strong in the third quarter. Our CET1 ratio ended the quarter at 9.8%. During the quarter, we completed $550 million in share repurchases, which reduced our share count by 14.5 million shares compared to the second quarter. We also raised our common dividend $0.03 or 11% to $0.30 per share. Our capital plan supports approximately $300 million of share repurchases in the fourth quarter of 2021 and we continue to target a 9.5% CET1 by June 2022. Moving to our fourth-quarter outlook. We expect average total loan balances to increase 2% sequentially, excluding the PPP headwind. Including the PPP impact, we expect average total loans to increase approximately 1%. Our outlook reflects 0.5 points of improvement from commercial revolving line utilization, continued strength in commercial production given our record pipeline, and continued stabilization in paydowns based on activity that we are seeing so far in October. We expect average C&I growth of four to 5%, excluding PPP in the fourth quarter, and CRE balances to decline around 1% or so, primarily due to construction constraints. As a result, we anticipate total average commercial loan growth of around 3% sequentially, excluding PPP. We expect average total consumer loan balances to increase around 1% sequentially, including the impacts of Ginnie Mae forbearance pool purchases in our held-for-sale portfolio. We purchased 300 million during the third quarter, an additional 700 million in early October. Given our loan outlook, we expect NII to be down 1% sequentially in the fourth quarter, assuming stable securities balances and a $17 million reduction in PPP income. Excluding PPP, we expect fourth-quarter NII to be up slightly relative to the third quarter. Our guidance indicates full-year 2021 NII declines less than 1% compared to full-year 2020 despite no meaningful growth in investment securities balances throughout the year and an average decline in one-month LIBOR of approximately 40 basis points. We expect NIM to decline three to four basis points in the fourth quarter, primarily due to loan yield compression. We expect fourth-quarter fees to increase around 6% compared to the third quarter and to be up around 8% on a year-over-year basis, excluding the impacts of the TRA. This results in full-year 2021 fee growth, excluding the impacts of the TRA of approximately 10% compared to 2020. Our outlook assumes a continued healthy economy, resulting in a record full-year commercial banking revenue led by 20% growth in capital markets fees, record wealth and asset management revenue up double digits, and double-digit growth in card and processing revenue. We expect private equity income to be in the $40 million area in the fourth quarter. Our outlook assumes a sequential decline in top-line mortgage revenue of approximately 40%, with roughly half of that decline due to seasonally lower fourth-quarter volumes and declining spreads and half to our decision to retain 400 million in retail production that I mentioned earlier. We expect fourth-quarter expenses to be stable to up 1% compared to the third quarter, reflecting continued growth in technology investments, servicing expenses associated with the Ginnie Mae loan purchases, and continued marketing support related to our rollout of momentum, offset by disciplined expense management throughout the company and initial savings beginning from our process automation program. As a result, our full-year 2021 total core revenue growth is expected to exceed the growth in core expenses despite the rate environment. We will have achieved positive operating leverage in a year in which the vast majority of the industry will likely experience an erosion inefficiency. We expect total net charge-offs in the fourth quarter to be in the 10 to 15 basis points range, which would result in full-year 2021 charge-offs of 15 basis points or so. In summary, our third-quarter results were strong and continue to demonstrate the progress we have made over the past few years toward achieving our goal of outperformance through the cycle. We will continue to remain the same principles of disciplined client selection, conservative underwriting, and a focus on a long-term performance horizon, which has served us well during this environment. With that, let me turn it over to Chris to open the call up for Q&A.Chris Doll -- Director of Investor Relations Thanks, Jamie. [Operator instructions] Operator, please open the call for questions. 