  OperatorGood morning. My name is Sia, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Alaska Air Group 2021 first-quarter earnings release conference call. Today's call is being recorded and will be accessible for future playback at alaskaair.com. [Operator instructions] Thank you. I would now like to turn the call over to Alaska Air Group's managing director of investor relations, Emily Halverson. Please go ahead, ma'am.Emily Halverson -- Managing Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Sia, and good morning. Thanks for joining us for our first-quarter 2021 earnings call. This morning, we issued our earnings release, which is available at investor.alaskaair.com. On today's call, you'll hear updates from Ben in his new role as CEO, and he will be joined by Andrew and Shane for commercial and financial updates. Several others of our management team are also on the line to answer your questions during the Q&A portion of the call. Our business and outlook continue to be significantly impacted by the global health and economic crises that are under way. In the first quarter, Air Group reported an adjusted net loss, excluding special items and mark-to-market adjustments of $436 million. And we went from burning approximately $4 million a day last quarter to cash generation of approximately $1 million a day in March under the same definition.We believe we are among the first in the industry to have achieved this milestone and it marks a critical point in recovery that enables us to turn our attention to the future. Our comments today will include forward-looking statements about future performance, which may differ materially from our actual results. Information on risk factors that could affect our business can be found in our SEC filings. We will also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted earnings and unit costs excluding fuel, and as usual, we have provided a reconciliation between the most directly comparable GAAP and non-GAAP measures in today's earnings release. Ben Minicucci -- Chief Operating Officer

 



 Thanks, Emily, and good morning, everyone. I appreciate all of you joining us today for an update on our business. As this is my first call as CEO, I thought I'd share some of my thinking on where I will spend my time, energy and focus over the next several years. I've been with Alaska for 17 years. I have come to know and love what our company is all about. Our people and our culture, our focus on safety and operational excellence, our reputation for customer service and our financial discipline and track record. Over the years, we have truly embraced a balanced approach to delivering for all stakeholders, and I will continue to nurture this approach and build on that legacy. While we also need to grow and do better in other areas that I look forward to developing, how we manage to reduce our climate impact, ensuring that Alaska is a place where everyone feels they belong and unlocking the power of our brand. In the short term, however, our primary focus is on rebuilding our business to pre-COVID levels and returning to profitable growth. While Q1 results are far below normal levels, it has marked an inflection point during this pandemic, and it appears that we have turned the corner in several key areas that I will touch on in a moment. Before I dive into results, I want to welcome Constance von Muehlen into her role as chief operating officer for Alaska Airlines, succeeding Gary Beck. Constance has been with the company for 10 years and is an incredible leader. I know that she will do a fantastic job in this pivotal role. Onto the quarter recap. As momentum with vaccine has picked up and travel restrictions have eased, there has been a strong return of leisure demand. We have seen passenger employments move from being down 65% in January to down 35% in April.

 



 Today, sustained future bookings are roughly 80% of pre-COVID levels. On the strength of these increased bookings and solid cost management against our plan, we posted positive cash flow in March, excluding the impact of the PSP funding. Full-quarter operating cash flow, inclusive of funds received under the PSP was positive $167 million. I'd like to take a moment to thank the employees at Alaska and Horizon for helping us get to this point. They've handled this long downturn with an incredible determination to keep our company moving and ready for a strong return of guests. Protecting the health and safety of our guests and employees, while also protecting the financial health of our business has only been possible because of the collaborative efforts of our employees and labor leadership. During the quarter, our teams advanced several strategic efforts that are important to shaping our future. First, on March 31, we celebrated our official entry into oneworld. It was the culmination of a year of work by over 400 people across our company, and I want to specifically thank the IT and e-commerce teams for their incredible efforts to make this possible. Many other teams spend months working on this as well, including our crews and frontline teams who are helping guests navigate the changes we put in place. Second, we received four 737-9 MAX aircraft and have placed them into operating service. Despite the temporary grounding, which we expect to be resolved in the next week or two, these aircraft have been very well received by our guests and our crews. By the end of 2022, we will have another 39 MAX 9s, replacing the Airbus A319s and A320s that were retired from service last year. As you know, the MAX has 25% better fuel efficiency, lower maintenance costs and significant revenue opportunity with its higher gauge. The fuel efficiency of the MAX will also help us reduce our climate impact through lower emissions. And on that note, we've recently made new sustainability commitments, particularly focused on climate impact and racial equity. On climate, we announced yesterday our long-term commitment and road map to net-zero carbon emissions by 2040. We also set near-term goals for 2025, focused on being the most fuel-efficient U.S. airline, building on our culture of efficiency in every part of our system and continuing to electrify our GSE fleet. In February, we announced specific commitments for diversity, equity and inclusion, including the following goals: ensuring the diverse representation of our frontline as reflected in our senior leadership team, cultivating a truly inclusive culture and continuing to support education as a critical element of equity. We know we have not done enough in this area in the last 10 years and that we still have a lot of work ahead of us, but we're committed to making Alaska a place in which everyone feels they belong and can be their best. And to underscore the importance of climate and DEI commitments, we tied a portion of executive at-risk pay to achieve diversity goals, and our climate-related goals are not part of our performance-based pay program that every employee participates in. As we look to the remainder of the year and beyond, we are focused on several important areas. First, maintaining balance sheet strength. Our adjusted net debt today is $1.6 billion, down from $1.7 billion at the end of 2019. As we bring capacity and costs back online, we will also prioritize reducing debt levels in the back half of the year. To the extent the recovery is choppy or decelerates, we know having a strong balance sheet will provide foundational strength. Second, we are focused on returning capacity at a deliberate and responsible rate. As we laid out last year, we will fly 80% of 2019 levels this summer. We plan to return to 100% no later than summer of '22. This trajectory is consistent with our preference to seek higher load factors than we're seeing today and allows us to make progress with pilot transition training to a mostly all-Boeing fleet. Third, we are developing a road map back to profitability. Our fleet plan and cost restructure program are essential pieces of this road map. Our recent entry into oneworld will be instrumental and we look forward to sharing a framework for the commercial contribution it will bring as we return to our pre-COVID size. In our forecast today, Q2 is approaching P&L breakeven. And we anticipate turning to profitability in Q3, and it's worth reminding that nearly 50% of our traffic and revenues touched California on a pre-COVID basis. And as you know, California remains largely closed today. Seeing the state reopen will be a powerful near-term enabler for our path back. As we manage these three important aspects of our business, we're cognizant that we may be faced with reasons to modify our plans. Let me state unequivocally that we have the balance sheet, cost structure and cash on hand to adjust our capacity trajectory and will do so if conditions merit. For example, if we saw more robust demand or an acceleration of the business recovery, we will adapt. The same is true if we see competitive threats to our network or future growth. I know I speak for the whole management team in saying that turning the momentum we're experiencing today into earnings over the long-term is imperative. The work we are focused on and this quarter's results are steps in the right direction. I truly believe Alaska is well-positioned for the future. And with that, I'll pass it to Andrew who I know you have missed hearing from in the last few quarters.Andrew Harrison -- Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer Thanks, Ben, and good morning, everyone. And it is great to be back speaking with you about the commercial side of our business. Although we've still got a long climb ahead, the momentum that we've seen in the past few months is really exciting as we've started to see demand return. First-quarter revenues came in at $797 million, down 57.5% from the year over two. We also saw sequential improvement in each month of the quarter with January revenues down 63%, February down 59% and March down 52%. Passenger and payments followed a similar trend. Our first-class cabin performed particularly well, with revenues down 42% for March, which was 10 points better than system average. Low fares resulting in high paid load factors were the main drivers. Our overall revenue results look to be among the strongest in the industry despite, as Ben noted, California demand remaining seriously impaired. To provide perspective on this, the 54% reduction in California bookings during the first quarter versus 2019 were down nearly two times that of the non-California system average. We expect California to experience a step change in performance by mid-June, which is when the governor has targeted to fully open California's economy. Capacity was 33% below 2019 levels, which was three points worse than we had expected. This was primarily caused by cancellations from a severe winter storm across the Pacific Northwest over Presidents Day holiday. For the quarter, our load factor was 52%, which is up seven points from Q4 on nine points more capacity, aided by our move to unblocked middle seats beginning in January. This has been really helpful as demand returns. In March, 41% of our mainline departures carried over and above what our load factor caps would have allowed if middle seat blocks have remained in place. Taking a look at the quarter, load factor accelerated from 42% in January to 49% in February and to 62% in March. Notwithstanding, we added 20,000 more daily seats in March compared to January. This momentum has continued into April, where we expect to get close to a 70% load factor. May is also building at a higher rate than April was at this same time last month. Turning to bookings. Recent data indicates employment trends should continue to improve. We began the quarter in January with an average of around 60,000 bookings a day or about 43% of 2019 levels. Bookings stepped to approximately 60% of 2019 levels in February and then 75% in March. The sequential improvement in year over two-year bookings trends has continued into April. With demand and passenger employments up as much as we're seeing and the opening of middle seats, I do want to highlight that our Alaska Listens survey for the first quarter continued to show over 80% of guests give us an excellent or very good ratings on health and safety. Additionally, our customer satisfaction scores remained higher than they were pre pandemic. I'd like to personally thank our frontline and crews for making this happen and ensuring our guests feel safe and comfortable even though loads have been increasing, and we no longer block middle seats in the main cabin. Touching briefly on pricing, yields were 11% below 2019 levels this quarter, in part because of the promotional efforts that we used to stimulate demand for January and February, which are traditionally our weakest months of the year, the pandemic making them especially so. Price volatility is likely an issue we will continue to face in this recovery. As we look toward summer, we are seeing yields improving with demand. While our bias is toward flying fuller planes, we are clear-eyed about the need to increase yields as we navigate back to our pre-COVID size. A bright spot during the last year has been our loyalty program. Total mileage plan revenues were down just 32% during the quarter and cash brought in from the bank to compensate us for miles earned on our card surpassed 2019 levels in March. Credit cardholders also showed modest growth since the end of 2020, increasing by about half a point. As we see demand return, our teams have started to focus more acutely on the commercial opportunities in front of us. We are picking up from where we left off in 2019, if you will. Three immediate opportunities for 2021 and beyond have already been put in place. Firstly, tapping into the unique benefits of our American and oneworld alliances. The increased breadth and depth that we can offer guests is next level, creating value from both a network revenue and loyalty revenue perspective. Secondly, implementation of a new RM system, including fare classes that align with our oneworld partners and affords us additional selling classes in the premium cabin. And then thirdly, greater access to managed corporate accounts as we now provide much greater utility with our domestic partnership with American and our global partners with oneworld loyalty benefits. We finally resolved a long time issue for our corporate guests by now having a seamless global program in place. As we look forward, we believe the continuation of the return of demand supports our plans to add back capacity in our strongest hubs in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska, then ultimately, California as it begins to relax restrictions. Business travel remains severely depressed during the quarter, and our quarterly surveys of corporate customers reinforced our belief that business travel will ramp to about 50% of normal levels by the end of this year. That said, we've seen a 4.6-point improvement in our share gap in the year over two in the first two months of this year for our managed corporate accounts. Consistent with all I've shared, we remain committed to fly approximately 80% of 2019 levels in the second quarter and total revenues are expected to be down 32% to down 37% versus 2019. For the second quarter, we expect load factor to be between 70% and 75%. While this pandemic is throwing a litany of challenges our way, I do believe that as vaccines continue to roll out, which has resulted in demand being less and less impacted by guest case counts, excuse me, we have line of sight to rebuilding our business. Our network, product, fares, loyalty program and commitment to guest service and care are all configured to bring us out of this even stronger than we went in. And with that, I'll pass it over to Shane.Shane Tackett -- Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Finance Thank you, Andrew, and good morning, everyone. Today, I will touch on our cash flows, liquidity and our balance sheet, as well as cost and expectations for the second quarter. This quarter felt very much like a turning point away from purely trying to survive and toward rebuilding our business, bringing people and flying back and beginning to chart a path back to profits and growth. While we reported an adjusted net loss this quarter of $436 million, we were able to generate positive GAAP operating cash flows for the quarter, and positive adjusted cash flows in March, even excluding CARES payroll support grants. Our air traffic liability increased by $224 million or 21%, reflecting the step-change improvement in demand that industry is currently seeing. Travel credits now represent 37% of our ATL, down from 53% at year-end. We exited the quarter with an improved adjusted net debt result, which was down from $1.7 billion at the end of 2020 to just under $1.6 billion and our debt-to-cap increased only one point to 62%, which we believe will be the high watermark for our debt-to-cap metric and that we will see it reduce from here. We also continue to hold $3.5 billion in on-hand liquidity. Given booking trends and our balance sheet health, I anticipate that we will begin reducing our cash balance by retiring debt during the second half of the year, ultimately moving toward on-hand liquidity in the range of $2 billion to $2.5 billion. Having heard from Andrew about the commercial progress we saw in the quarter, let me turn to cost performance. We had several areas of good performance and some we need to drive more improvement in. Adjusted nonfuel operating expenses were $1.14 billion, an increase of $43 million or 3.9% sequentially versus Q4 2020, while capacity increased 8%. As mentioned, for the quarter, we saw strong cost performance in several areas of the business as we beat the cost plan we set out for our divisions. Areas of particular strength included our overhead spend, productivity in our airport ramp and aircraft mechanic groups, further progress against long-term structural cost savings and regional flying unit costs, which were nearly flat year over two, with especially solid cost performance at Horizon. As we bring back capacity further, we now need to work on improving our crew productivity, which is challenged by recall training, our fleet transition and flying that is not balanced by crew base relative to our pre-COVID schedule. Speaking of recalls for a second, we were able to welcome 1,500 additional employees back from leave this quarter. We are excited to have our employees back and appreciate what they've done to support the company and their colleagues during the worst and most uncertain periods of the downturn. A primary area of cost headwind right now are airport costs as a material share of these costs are not variable with volume. In Q1, airport costs were down just 2.6% on 27% fewer departure volumes, and we continue to see pressure in this area in Q2. Airport leaders were great partnering with the industry last year to manage these costs down and given they have received additional funds under the American Rescue Plan Act, we are anxious to work with them to use these funds to offset costs again in 2021 as they were able to in 2020. In Seattle specifically, we have a unique $30 million cost headwind versus 2019 related to the sunsetting of a lease provision that previously provided for sharing concession revenues as part of the lease agreement that carriers agreed to in 2018. I also want to share some additional context on two other cost categories: maintenance expense and variable pay expenses. Regarding maintenance, we are not actively deferring maintenance on our operating fleets. And today, we are operating our entire regional and our entire Boeing fleet. Due to this, we won't have a pent-up maintenance backlog going forward. And as such, we expect relatively smooth maintenance costs through the year. And lastly, more as a reminder than anything, we continue to utilize our long-standing performance-based pay program to align employees on the goals that are key to our short- and long-term success. I believe we may be the only airline right now with continued incentive pay accruals. And in the quarter, we accrued $33.5 million for our monthly operational goals program and a potential payout under the annual PBP plan early next year. Looking ahead, we expect continued sequential unit cost improvement with an increase in Q2 of 15% to 17% versus 2019. As I just mentioned, our cost forecast includes an assumption that employees will continue to earn a payout under the performance-based pay program, and it also includes the three-point headwind specific to Seattle's airport costs. We expect this sequential improvement versus 2019 to continue throughout the year as more capacity comes back and as we make gains toward the structural cost initiatives we've outlined in previous calls. We do expect to return to pre-COVID unit costs or better at some point in the next several quarters. Lastly, on guidance, I expect Q2 GAAP operating cash flow will be approximately $450 million to $550 million, which reflects an improvement of $200 million to $300 million versus Q1, solely associated with the recovery of the business. This guidance is inclusive of the grant portion of the third CARES Act PSP program. To close, we are proud of the work our Alaska and Horizon teams did this past year to manage through the worst steps of the pandemic-induced crisis. And we are now hopeful that we can completely focus from here forward on rebuilding our network and our margin profile, then growing and returning to balanced capital allocation. We are fortunate to be well-positioned coming into the initial part of recovery. We have a strong balance sheet that should continue to improve throughout the year. We have a competitive advantage in our cost structure that we will continue to work to improve over this year and next, and we are on the path to get all of our folks back ready to welcome guests as they get flying again. With that, let's turn to your questions. 