  Matt Wells Good evening, good evening everyone. My name is Matt Wells, and I'm the senior director of Investor Relations at Ceridian. I'd like to welcome everyone to the Ceridian first quarter 2022 conference call. All participants are in listen only mode and a question-and-answer session will follow the formal remarks. As a reminder this conference is being recorded. Joining me on the call today we have co-CEOs David Ossip; and Leagh Turner; CFO, Noemie Heuland; and EVP of corp dev and Investor Relations, Erik Zimmer. Before I hand the call over to David, I'd like to remind everyone that are remarks may include forward-looking statements and projection. These forward-looking statements are based on management reasonable assumptions and current beliefs.There are a number of factors that could cause certain results to differ materially from our expectations. You can learn more about these risks in the press release and shareholder letter issue earlier this afternoon on our website and in our SEC filings. Ceridian undertakes no obligation to revise any forward-looking statements made on this call, except as required by law. With that, I'll turn the call over to David. 

 



David Ossip -- Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Thanks, Matt and good evening, everyone. Thank you for joining the call today. Before we go into Q&A, I want you to spend a few minutes highlighting the quarter. We had a strong start to the year, executing well across sales, implementation, customer support, product and technology. Dayforce recurring revenue excluding float grew by 31% year-over-year, exceeding the high end of our guidance range. Total revenue was 20 --- grew by 25.1%, and adjusted gross margin on recurring increased by 220 basis points to 75.5%. Adjusted EBITDA margin exceeded the high end of our guide by 347 basis points. On the customer side, we added a 175 customers and now have 500 -- 5,609 customers live on day four. At the same time, the average recurring revenue for Dayforce customer grew by 10%, and on new sales, we sold over 35% of customers requiring a full suite. Dayforce wallet continues to do well. We now have sold over 1,100 customers on the Dayforce wallet, of which 530 are live, registration rates have increased to 36% across the eligible employees. Float balance also increased by 17% year-over-year.

 



 Overall, very strong quarter. On the macro environment, our business remains resilient, and we continue to benefit on [Audio gap] the employee indicators and rising interest rates. And as such, we are raising our fiscal year 2022 guidance for revenue and profitability as detailed in our shareholder letter. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Matt will guide us through the Q&A.Matt Wells Thank you, David. As we go through the Q&A portion of the call, I'll announce your name. And at that point, we ask that you please unmute your line and ask your question and then remute your line. We also ask that you please limit your time to one question and one follow up. Thank you. First question from Siti Panigrahi from Mizuho.

 



Siti Panigrahi -- Mizuho Securities -- Analyst Hey, David and team. Thanks for taking my question. Just wanted to dig into the wallet. So it's almost like two years. The first year was the time of year period and now full year. So it's good to see the momentum and even registration, 36%. Just wondering what's -- how is it trending compared to your expectation so far? And also, what sort of feedback you're getting on the new products like cashback and [Inaudible]? And what should we expect in the remaining -- remainder of 2022?David Ossip -- Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chairman To answer your question, [Audio gap] tracking well against our expectations. Also, of note, is that 89% of our new U.S. customers are attaching wallets, which is obviously an increase that we've seen year-over-year. We've seen good reception from the cashback partnership that we have with us. Also, within the quarter, we added support for minor employees, which allows us, obviously to deliver the solution better to hospitality and retail.Siti Panigrahi -- Mizuho Securities -- Analyst OK. And just a quick follow up to EBITDA margin seems to be pretty good this quarter. Is there a one time thing? Or as we think about the remainder of the quarter, given some of the -- realigning workforces?David Ossip -- Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chairman [Audio gap] I'll start by saying, look, we've raised guidance for the year and we've raised both the low end and the top end by $10 million. I'll add -- I'll ask Naomi to add a bit more color to that?Noemie Heuland -- Chief Financial Officer Yeah. Sure. So for Q1, Siti, we had a couple of things. We've increased our cloud recurring gross margin that actually exceeded our expectations last quarter. As you remember, we've discussed that we took some actions to rebalance some of our workforce into our shared services that are in APJ. We've executed that very well. We've gain efficiencies on cloud recurring gross margin, and that will continue throughout the year. That's very important because that's also helps the scale in the long-term. We had also taken a little bit of an upside on Bureau. We had a better volume than expected in our tax and payroll in North America. So that flew also directly through the bottom line, and we had a little bit of float upside as well. So those are the main things that happened in Q1. Of note, we also continue to make some investments in our product and technology as well in Q1 and we'll continue to do so in the second half of the year in Q2 as well.Siti Panigrahi -- Mizuho Securities -- Analyst Great. Thank you. 