  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is France, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Facebook second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] This call will be recorded. Ms. Deborah Crawford, Facebook's vice president of investor relations, you may begin.Deborah Crawford -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you. Good afternoon, and welcome to Facebook's second-quarter earnings conference call. Joining me today to discuss our results are Mark Zuckerberg, CEO; Sheryl Sandberg, COO; and Dave Wehner, CFO. Before we get started, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that our remarks today will include forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause these results to differ materially are set forth in today's press release and in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make on this call are based on assumptions as of today, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events. During this call, we may present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release. The press release and an accompanying investor presentation are available on our website at investor.fb.com. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Mark. Mark Zuckerberg -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Hi, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. This was a good quarter for our product and business. There are now more than 3.5 billion people who actively use one or more of our services. And I'm excited about our product road map ahead. I want to start today by discussing some of the themes that we're seeing in our major efforts around creators, commerce, and the next computing platform. Each of these areas is important and is going to unlock a lot of value on its own, but they're also building blocks for the future of the Internet and the future vision for our company. And I'll discuss that as well. So first, let's talk about creators. Now we want our platforms to be the best place for millions of creators to earn a living. And if we can do this, then our services will also have the best content across many different types of media, from text and photos to audio, gaming, and video. Video, in particular, is becoming the primary way that people use our products and express themselves. I know this is a theme that we've been talking about for a few years now, but we've been executing on this for a while, and video has steadily become more important in our product. Video now accounts for almost half of all time spent on Facebook, and Reels is already the largest contributor to engagement growth on Instagram. Across all forms of video, short-form video like Reels is growing especially quickly. We're very focused on making it easy for anyone to create video and then for those videos to be viewed across all of our different services, starting with Facebook and Instagram first.

 



 Now people like to watch videos recommended by our personalized algorithms, so this gives creators a good way to reach new people who don't follow them yet. And this is also a good complement to our social feeds, and it's an area where our progress in AI is going to make the experience a lot better in the coming months and years.On-demand video like in Facebook Watch is also growing quickly and is now growing faster than other types of video or content in News Feed. We're building a number of new video monetization tools for creators that can get compensated for making great content. So for example, last year, people spent more than $50 million of stars to game stream creators going live on Facebook alone. And now we're extending stars so fans can send them to any creator during on-demand video as well. I also want to call out live video for a moment. This is a smaller percent of our overall video on our services, but it's some of the most unique content and gives creators a way to build community and engage with their followers. And we're also focused on developing monetization tools like Live Breaks for midroll ads and Live Shopping, so creators can make a living and engage their communities more deeply in commerce with their content. So overall, there's a lot more to do here. And as it becomes the majority of engagement across our services in the coming years, we're going to continue to focus on that. We're also focused on other types of creators beyond video. And some of the most interesting emergent behavior that we're seeing is creators using a lot of different types of content to engage their communities. So we've launched Live Audio Rooms this quarter, as well as podcasts. We also launched Bulletin, our publishing, and subscription service for writers, and with features to help them find and grow their audiences, including integrations with Groups, Facebook Live, and Live Audio Room. To help grow the creator economy overall, we're going to keep our creator tools free to use through 2023. And we recently announced that we are investing $1 billion in creators across Facebook and Instagram. So I'm optimistic that creators will get more opportunities to do the work that they want, and that's going to lead to people hearing lots of new voices across our different services. The second area that I want to talk about today is commerce. Our goal here is to create better experiences for people interacting with businesses and to help businesses grow even more on our platform. Our approach is to work our way down the stack and build world-class services at every layer of commerce, starting from discovery at the top of the stack all the way down to payments. And just like we want to be the best place for millions of creators to make a living, we also want to be the best place for businesses to grow as well. We started here by building world-class ad tools to help businesses reach potential customers and help people discover new products and services that they might like. But what we found is that when these ads link off site, you often land on a web page that's not personalized or not optimized or where you have to reenter your payment information, and that's not a good experience for people, and it doesn't lead to the best results for businesses either. So our next phase here is focused on building out Shops, Marketplace, business messaging in WhatsApp and Messenger to create more native commerce experiences across our apps. There's a lot of work here to do to support all of the business tools natively that already exist for the web. But as we bring more of this online and enable more of this, it's going to create a superior consumer experience, and it's going to convert better for businesses. This is going to lead to more businesses investing and building out their presences across our services, and that will lead to even more diversity of products for people to discover and interact with. So this is a long-term strategy. It's going to take a while before it's meaningful, especially given the scale of our ads business already, but I'm confident that it's the right long-term bet and product direction. And as we work our way down the stack from discovery and ads to native commerce store front, we're also making progress on payments at the same time. So WhatsApp Payments are now available to everyone in Brazil, as well as India. Lots of people are already using this as a simple and secure way to send money to friends. We're adding new payments features in Messenger in the U.S. like QR codes. We also just announced that we're making Facebook Pay available outside of our apps for the first time, which means that you're going to start seeing it as a checkout option on the web and especially in web views that you see within our app after clicking on ads or other business content. The commerce experiences are now accessible across most of our services, and we have a full road map of deeper integrations that I'm excited about in the months ahead. The third area I want to talk about is building the next computing platform. We're continuing to invest very heavily in building technology and products to deliver a full sense of presence. This is going to be critical for unlocking the next generation of social Internet services. Quest 2, in particular, continues doing well, and it keeps getting better monthly as we release regular software updates, including most recently, our pass-through APIs, so developers can start building mixed-reality experiences on Quest. The range of content and experiences that we're seeing keeps broadening as well to the point where there are a lot of popular virtual reality experiences beyond games at this point. The most popular apps on Quest are social, which fits our original thesis here that virtual reality will be a social platform. And that's why we're so focused on building it. But we're also seeing compelling use cases in other forms of entertainment, as well as work, creativity, and fitness. Looking ahead here, the next product release will be the launch of our first smart glasses from Ray-Ban in partnership with EssilorLuxottica. The glasses have their iconic form factor, and they let you do some pretty neat things. So I'm excited to get those into people's hands and to continue to make progress on the journey toward full augmented reality glasses in the future. Now the areas that I've discussed today: creators, commerce, and the next computing platform, they're each important priorities for us, and they're each going to unlock a lot of value on their own. But together, these efforts are also part of a much larger goal: to help build the metaverse. And I'll be sharing a lot more about this in the months ahead. So I wanted to discuss this now so you can see the future that we're working toward and how our major initiatives across the company are going to map to that. So what is the metaverse? It's a virtual environment. We can be present with people in digital spaces. And you can kind of think about this as an embodied Internet that you're inside of rather than just looking at. And we believe that this is going to be the successor to the mobile Internet. You're going to be able to access the metaverse from all different devices and different levels of fidelity from apps on phones and PCs to immersive virtual and augmented reality devices. Within the metaverse, you're going to be able to hang out, play games with friends, work, create, and more. You're basically going to be able to do everything that you can on the Internet today, as well as some things that don't make sense on the Internet today, like dancing. The defining quality of the metaverse is presence, which is this feeling that you're really there with another person or in another place. Creation, avatars, and digital objects are going to be central to how we express ourselves, and this is going to lead to entirely new experiences and economic opportunities. I think that, overall, this is one of the most exciting projects that we're going to get to work on in our lifetime. But it's going to take a lot of work. And no one company is going to be able to build this all by themselves. Part of what I've learned over the last five years is that we can't just focus on building great experiences, we also need to make sure that we're helping to build ecosystems so millions of other people can participate in the upside and opportunity of what we're all creating. There are -- going to need to be new protocols and standards, new devices, new chips, new software from rendering engines to payment systems, and everything in between. And in order for the metaverse to fill its potential, we believe that it should be built in a way that is open for everyone to participate. I expect that this is going to create a lot of value for many companies up and down the stack, but it's also going to require a very significant investment over many years. I see our focus here as a continuation of our work to build technology that brings people together. In many ways, the metaverse is the ultimate expression of social technology. Some of the experiences that I've dreamed of building since well before I started Facebook are only starting to become possible now. If you look at the investments that we've made over the years, you can see this vision gradually starting to come to focus. And you can see why we're so excited about it. So in addition to being the next generation of the Internet, the metaverse is also going to be the next chapter for us as a company. And in the coming years, I expect people will transition from seeing us primarily as a social media company to seeing us as a metaverse company. And there's a lot that we need to do to get there. And there are going to be many exciting milestones along the way, including some which we'll share in the months ahead. But in the meantime, I just want to take a moment to thank everyone in our community, all of our partners and employees, and everyone who has supported us so far. I continue to be grateful to be on this journey with all of you. And now here is Sheryl.Sheryl Sandberg -- Chief Operating Officer Hi, everyone. Thanks, Mark. I hope you're all safe and healthy. This was a really strong quarter for our business. Our total revenue for Q2 was $29.1 billion, which is a 56% year-over-year increase. We've seen strong growth in all regions and across most verticals. Our strongest verticals are those that have performed well through the -- throughout the pandemic, including e-commerce, retail, and CPG. And we're also seeing continued recovery in others like travel that were hit hard by COVID. Our performance continues to be driven by the ongoing digital transformation, which has accelerated during the pandemic, and our long-term investments in tools and products to help businesses make the shift online. Not long ago, it was much harder and much more expensive for businesses to create a digital presence, take orders online and reach customers remotely. Our tools and products make these things easier and more accessible. Businesses and creators can set up pages, profiles, and shops from Facebook and Instagram. They can engage with customers directly in groups or through Messenger and WhatsApp, and they can tell their stories in creative ways with real stories or by going live on Facebook and Instagram. With personalized ads, they can easily reach the people most likely to be interested in their products or services for just a few dollars. This has helped so many businesses, especially small businesses, find success when reaching people in person have been much harder. A great example is The Pizza Cupcake, a family owned baking business in New York City. They've been selling at pop-up shops since 2018. But when COVID hit, pop-up locations shut down and catering events canceled. So in March last year, they became an e-commerce business. In Q3, they tested their first Facebook Ad campaigns in the New York Tri-State Area. And by the following quarter, ramped up their budget to sell across 28 states. They since made three new hires and plan to start shipping nationwide this year. They've expanded production, which has also led to jobs being created at fulfillment centers in Maryland, Florida, Arizona, and California. We're constantly working to improve the effectiveness of our ad products to help businesses like The Pizza Cupcake reach customers and get a great return on their investment. We're doing this through investments in machine learning and monetization of newer surfaces like Stories and Reels. In all of this, we're planning for the long term. Mark talked about some of the key elements of our strategy going forward. So I'll focus on the strategy for the ads business. If you think about the journey we've been on over the past decade or so, we started with desktop ads on the right-hand side of people's feeds. Then consumers shifted to mobile, and we put ads in News Feed. And quarter after quarter, year after year, as we've created great new consumer products like Stories or Reels, we found the right way for advertisers to reach consumers within these products. And we're constantly working to make our ads deliver more for businesses and be more relevant for people. To support the growth of our ads business over the next 10 years, it's going to take a similar effort. We need to build on our success by developing innovative new products and discovery experiences while giving everyone more control over their personal information. To build the next era of personalized experiences, we're focused on product innovations in four areas. The first is discovery. We want to keep making our app the best places to discover products and businesses you'll love. For example, we're testing a new experience in News Feed where you can tap to browse content from businesses on topics like beauty, fitness, or clothing. And we're using context to make smarter recommendations about which ads to show. So if you're watching a travel video, we could show ads for hotels and flights. The second area is commerce, which Mark touched on a moment ago. We're building a modern commerce system across ads, community tools, messaging, shops and payments. It's all about creating a personalized, seamless customer journey where it's easier to discover products, buy it, pay for it and have it delivered to your doorstep. The third area is privacy-enhancing technologies. We know businesses are experiencing challenges because of platform changes. We want to make sure they can continue getting great results through privacy-safe, personalized ads long into the future. So we're collaborating across the industry to develop new technologies to help minimize the amount of personal information we process while still allowing us to show relevant ads and measure their effectiveness. The fourth is building tools that help businesses beyond marketing. We want to help solve all kinds of business needs, whether it's customer relationship management, business messaging tools, or hiring through Facebook jobs. We're helping people run their business across our apps easily with Facebook Business Suite. We're making it easier to message customers across our apps from a single interface. And we're expanding our Messenger API for Instagram as customers increasingly rely on messaging instead of phone calls. The digital transformation is a long-term trend that isn't going away. By focusing on innovation in these four areas, we will continue to help businesses of all sizes make the shift online and reach customers with privacy-safe, personalized advertising. As ever, I'm grateful to all the businesses who work with us, and I continue to be amazed by our teams all over the world. Throughout this period, we've been really lucky to have so many brilliant people working hard to keep people connected and help businesses survive and thrive online. Now over to Dave.Dave Wehner -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Sheryl, and good afternoon, everyone. We delivered strong results in the second quarter as our services continue to help millions of businesses reach customers around the world. Let's begin with our community metrics. We estimate that approximately 2.8 billion people used at least one of our services on a daily basis in June and that approximately 3.5 billion people used at least one on a monthly basis. Our global community continue to grow even as we lapped elevated user growth in the second quarter of last year related to the pandemic. Facebook daily active users reached 1.91 billion, up 7% or 123 million compared to last year. DAUs represented approximately 66% of the 2.9 billion monthly active users in June. MAUs grew by 194 million or 7% compared to last year. Turning to the financials. All comparisons are on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise noted. Q2 total revenue was $29.1 billion, up 56% or 50% on a constant-currency basis. We benefited from a currency tailwind. And had foreign exchange rates remained constant with Q2 of last year, total revenue would have been $982 million lower. On a two-year basis, Q2 total revenue growth decelerated to 72% from 74% in the first quarter. Q2 ad revenue was $28.6 billion, up 56% or 51% on a constant-currency basis. The macroeconomic environment for online advertising remains very strong. As Sheryl noted, the growth in the advertising revenue was largely driven by verticals that have performed well during the pandemic, such as online commerce and consumer packaged goods. In addition, we have -- we saw improved growth trends in verticals that were particularly challenged during the pandemic, such as travel, entertainment, and media. On a user geography basis, ad revenue growth accelerated in all regions as we lapped the strongest quarter of last year, this is the second quarter of last year, which was the period hardest hit by the pandemic. Growth was strongest in the Rest of World at 86%. Europe, Asia Pacific, and the U.S., and Canada grew 63%, 56%, and 48%, respectively. Europe, Asia Pacific, and Rest of World, all benefited from currency tailwinds. In Q2, the total number of ad impressions served across our services increased 6% and the average price per ad increased 47%. Impression growth was primarily driven by developing markets, especially in Asia Pacific, while pricing growth benefited from broad-based strength in advertiser demand. Recall that in the second quarter of 2020, the effects of the pandemic contributed to elevated impressions and depressed prices, which we are now lapping. Other revenue was $497 million, up 36%. Other revenue growth continues to be driven by Quest 2 sales, though the rate of growth slowed in the second quarter as we entered a seasonally slower sales period. We also recorded a revenue adjustment for returns related to the Quest 2 foam facial interface recall. Turning now to expenses. Q2 total expenses were $16.7 billion, up 31% compared to last year. In terms of the specific line items: cost of revenue increased 41% driven by consumer hardware costs, payments partners, and core infrastructure investments. R&D increased 37%, driven primarily by hiring to support our core products and consumer hardware efforts. Marketing and sales increased 15%, mainly driven by hiring and marketing spend. Lastly, G&A expenses increased 23% driven mostly by employee-related costs and legal expenses. We added over 2,700 net new hires in Q2, primarily in technical functions. We ended the quarter with over 63,400 full-time employees, up 21% compared to last year. Second-quarter operating income was $12.4 billion, representing a 43% operating margin. Our tax rate was 17%. Net income was $10.4 billion or $3.61 per share. Capital expenditures, including capital leases, were $4.7 billion, driven by investments in data centers, servers, network infrastructure, and office facilities. Free cash flow was $8.5 billion. We repurchased $7.1 billion of our Class A common stock in the second quarter, and we ended the quarter with $64.1 billion in cash and marketable securities. In terms of our sustainability efforts, we remain focused on achieving our goal to reach net-zero emissions for our entire value chain in 2030. In June, we released our second annual sustainability report, which details our work toward achieving our objectives. Turning now to the outlook. Similar to the second quarter, we expect that advertising revenue growth will be primarily driven by year-over-year advertising price increases during the rest of 2021. In the third and fourth quarters of 2021, we expect year-over-year total revenue growth rates to decelerate significantly on a sequential basis as we lap periods of increasingly strong growth. When viewing growth on a two-year basis to exclude the impacts from lapping the COVID recovery, we expect year -- over two-year total revenue growth rates to decelerate modestly in the second half compared to the second-quarter rate. We continue to expect increasing ad targeting headwinds in 2021 from regulatory and platform changes, notably the recent iOS updates, which we expect to have a more significant impact in the third quarter compared to the second quarter. As noted in recent earnings calls, we continue to monitor developments related -- regarding the viability of transatlantic data transfers and their potential impact on our European operations. Turning now to expenses. We expect 2021 total expenses to be in the range of $70 billion to $73 billion, unchanged from our prior outlook. The year-over-year growth in expenses is driven primarily by investments in technical and product talent, infrastructure, and consumer hardware-related costs. Our expenses -- our expense outlook reflects our commitment to invest ahead of the compelling long-term growth opportunities we see across our product portfolio. We expect 2021 capital expenditures to be in the range of $19 billion to $21 billion, unchanged from our prior estimate. Our capital expenditures are driven primarily by our investments in data centers, servers, network infrastructure, and office facilities. We expect our full-year 2021 tax rate to be in the high teens. In closing, we are pleased with the strong performance of our business and remain committed to innovating on behalf of the people and businesses who use our services around the world. With that, France, let's open up the call for questions. 