  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Host Hotels & Resorts fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Jaime Marcus, senior vice president of investor relations.Jaime Marcus -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Before we begin, please note that many of the comments made today are considered to be forward-looking statements under federal securities laws. As described in our filings with the SEC, these statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause future results to differ from those expressed, and we are not obligated to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements. In addition, on today's call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial information, such as FFO, adjusted EBITDAre, and hotel level results.

 



 You can find this information together with reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP information in yesterday's earnings press release and our 8-K filed with the SEC and in the supplemental financial information on our website at hosthotels.com. With me on today's call will be Jim Risoleo, president and chief executive officer; and Sourav Ghosh, executive vice president and chief financial officer. With that, I would like to turn the call over to Jim.Jim Risoleo -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jaime, and thanks to everyone for joining us this morning. Despite the uncertainty of COVID-19 variants, we significantly outperformed expectations during the fourth quarter and substantially beat consensus metrics for the year. We delivered adjusted EBITDAre of $242 million, which exceeded our interest in capital expenditures by $68 million and achieved adjusted FFO per share of $0.29 during the quarter. In addition to delivering positive metrics each quarter, we achieved meaningful sequential increases each quarter throughout 2021. Pro forma total revenues in the fourth quarter grew 20% compared to the third quarter while pro forma hotel level operating expenses increased only 15%. RevPAR for the fourth quarter was $148 as volume and rates continue to hold up at our hotels in Sunbelt markets. This is the highest quarterly RevPAR we have seen since the onset of the pandemic and closed out a year of strong sequential improvements. RevPAR improved 13% compared to the third quarter despite some softening of demand in late December due to the omicron variant.

 



 Our recent acquisitions, which I will touch on shortly, all contributed to our outperformance during the fourth quarter and are exceeding our underwriting expectations. Preliminary January RevPAR, it's expected to be approximately $105, a 130% increase over January 2021. Our preliminary February RevPAR forecast is expected to be $150 to $155, and we expect a significant pickup across business segments in March, which is consistent with the recovery we experienced following the delta variant. In addition to delivering significant operational improvements, we continue to be recognized as a global leader in corporate responsibility. Our 2025 emissions target is verified by the Science Based Targets initiative at the 1.5-degree Celsius ambition level, making Host the first hospitality company and among the first three real estate companies in North America to set emissions reduction targets in line with the Paris Agreement's highest level of ambition. To complement our environmental targets, we were the first lodging REIT to issue social targets, including two diversity-related targets and one employee engagement target. We also continue to execute on our three strategic objectives, all of which are aimed at elevating the EBITDA growth profile of our portfolio. As a reminder, our objectives include redefining the hotel operating model with our operators, gaining market share at renovated hotels, and strategically allocating capital. As it relates to the last strategic objective, during the fourth quarter, we acquired two hotels and sold six hotels. Subsequent to quarter end, we sold one additional hotel. This brings our total early cycle acquisitions to $1.6 billion at a blended 13 times EBITDA multiple, and our dispositions to approximately $1 billion at a 15.4 times EBITDA multiple, including estimated foregone capital expenditures of $290 million. This is a continuation of our strategy to deploy capital into assets that we believe will elevate the EBITDA growth profile of our portfolio. As a refresher, our 2021 acquisitions included the Hyatt Regency Austin, Four Seasons Orlando at Walt Disney World, Baker's Cay Resort and Key Largo, The Laura Hotel in Houston, Alila Ventana Big Sur, the Alida, Savannah, and Hotel Van Zandt in Austin. We also acquired the Royal Kaanapali, and Kaanapali Kai golf courses in Maui. All of our recent acquisitions are performing substantially ahead of our underwriting expectations. For the full year 2021, EBITDA at our new acquisitions was $37 million higher than the full year 2021 EBITDA that was estimated in underwriting, which represents a 73% increase, and the golf courses were $4 million higher.

 



 Turning to our fourth-quarter acquisitions. In December, we closed on the Alida, Savannah, a 173 key boutique hotel for approximately $103 million. This newly constructed hotel opened in October 2018 and benefits from soft branding and Marriott's Tribute portfolio. With no expected near-term capex, favorable operating costs, and multiple demand drivers stabilization for the Alida is expected in the 2024 to 2025 time frame at approximately 11 to 12 times EBITDA. In addition, in December, we acquired our second hotel in Austin, the Hotel Van Zandt, a 319 key luxury lifestyle hotel for approximately $246 million including its $4 million FF&E reserve. The acquisition price represents a 13.2 times multiple on 2019 EBITDA. We funded the acquisition with approximately $140 million in proceeds from recent dispositions and assumed approximately $102 million of existing secured debt. Located adjacent to Austin's popular Rainey Street entertainment district, this recently constructed hotel opened in 2015 and is poised to benefit from continued large-scale development. We expect the hotel to stabilize at approximately 10 to 12 times EBITDA in the 2025 to 2027 time frame. On the dispositions front, we sold the 305 key W Hollywood in December for $197 million or 25 times 2019 EBITDA. When calculating the EBITDA multiple, we included $33 million of estimated foregone capex over the next five years. This is the third ground lease asset we sold in 2021. In addition, subsequent to quarter end, we sold the 1,220 key Sheraton Boston for $233 million or 14.2 times 2019 EBITDA. When calculating the EBITDA multiple, we included $135 million of estimated foregone capex over the next five years. In connection with the sale, we are providing a $163 million bridge loan to the purchaser, which we expect will be repaid within its first six-month term. Looking back on our transaction activity since 2018, we have acquired $3.2 billion of assets at a 14 times EBITDA multiple and disposed of $4.5 billion of assets at a 17 times EBITDA multiple, including $793 million of foregone capex over the next five years. With these transactions, we have dramatically improved the quality of our portfolio. Comparing pro forma 2019 results for our current portfolio to 2017, we have increased the RevPAR of our assets by 11%. The EBITDA per key by 20% and the EBITDA margins by 120 basis points. As we continue to evaluate capital allocation opportunities going forward, our efforts will remain focused on assets that further bolster our EBITDA growth profile. As part of our capital allocation efforts, in January, we acquired a 49% interest in the asset management platform of Noble Investment Group to cultivate innovative hospitality opportunities within Noble's private fund platform. We invested $90.7 million in its fee-based asset management business, comprising $35 million of cash and $55.7 million of equity or 3 million operating partnership units, which are subject to a one-year lockup period. In the future, we also have the ability to acquire an additional 26% to 51% in Noble, which would bring our aggregate interest to between 75% and 100%. In addition, we have made a $150 million LP commitment to the next Noble fund. Based on our current ownership interest, we are targeting average net expected earnings of $7 million to $10 million annually over the next three years. Over the past three decades, Noble has invested nearly $5 billion in acquiring and developing approximately 150 assets and the branded upscale select service and extended-stay segments across 84 markets in the U.S. Founded in 1993 by Mit Shah, who remains the CEO, the Noble team has a multi-cycle track record and extensive experience sourcing investment opportunities in real estate and capital markets. Our investment represents yet another opportunity to elevate the EBITDA growth profile of our portfolio by creating a new income source from recurring management and development fees and allowing for investment in select service hotels, extended-stay hotels and new development opportunities. The partnership will combine Noble's strong track record, development, achievement in the select service and extended-stay categories and fund management experience with our scale, market insights, and data analytics to source differentiated investment opportunities. By capitalizing on Noble's deep expertise, we will have the ability to incubate and invest in future lodging adjacent strategies, thereby creating additional paths for long-term strategic value creation. Those strategies include property technology solutions, development, and alternative lodging. We believe a fund vehicle is one of the best ways to gain change, scale, diversification, as Noble's expertise with select service and extended-stay hotels will preserve our focus on investing in upper upscale and luxury hotels and resorts. Moving on to fourth-quarter operations, we continue to close the gap to 2019. Transient demand in the fourth quarter was 82% of 2019 levels, compared to 77% in the third quarter and 58% in the first half of 2021, and we are encouraged that transient rate in each of the four quarters in 2021 exceeded rates in 2019. Our hotels also saw continued improvement in group during the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter, driven by demand growth of 15% and a 17% rate improvement. Also bolstering our group results was the continued meaningful improvement in banquets. Banquet and AV revenue was $150 million in the fourth quarter, up 84% over the third quarter after having doubled from the second quarter to the third quarter. Sourav will get into more detail on business mix in the fourth quarter shortly. In addition to successfully deploying capital this year, we continue to focus on our three strategic objectives. As a reminder, we are targeting a potential $267 million to $342 million of incremental stabilized EBITDA on an annual basis from the initiatives and projects underlying our strategic objectives. Approximately $120 million is expected to come from the seven acquisitions we completed in 2021. The $100 million to $150 million is expected to come from potential long-term cost savings over time based on 2019 revenues from redefining our operating model with our managers. We have taken steps toward 50% to 60% of these savings to date. Another $22 million to $37 million of incremental stabilized EBITDA is related to our goal of gaining three to five points of weighted index growth at the 16 Marriott Transformational Capital Program hotels and eight other hotels where major renovations have been recently completed or are underway. In 2021, we completed three Marriott Transformational Capital program properties. And subsequent to quarter end, we completed two more, bringing the number of completed properties in this program to 12 out of 16. In August, we completed the final phase of construction at the New York Marriott Marquis. And in October, we completed the final phase at the Orlando World Center Marriott closing out both of these three-year transformational renovation programs. Other properties completed over the past year include the Houston Marriott Medical Center, the Marina del Rey Marriott, and the Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island. We completed approximately 85% of the program as of year end, and we expect to substantially complete it by the end of 2022. The remaining Marriott Transformational Capital Program properties include Boston Copley, the San Diego Marriott Marquis, Marriott at Metro Center, and the JW Marriott in Houston. We expect to receive approximately $11 million in operating profit guarantees under the Marriott Transformational Capital Program in 2022. Additionally, this year, we added three hotels to our list of major renovations. The Westin Denver Downtown, Miami Marriott Biscayne Bay, and the Westin Georgetown in Washington, D.C. Finally, the remaining $25 million to $35 million of incremental stabilized EBITDA over time on an annual basis is expected to come from recently completed and ongoing ROI development projects. These projects are at different stages of renovation and development and stabilization is expected to occur two to three years after completion. To date, our ROI development projects at the Andaz Maui villas and the one Hotel Beach Club, have reduced returns significantly greater than our original underwriting. Our 2022 capital expenditure guidance range is $500 million to $600 million, which reflects our continued focus on reinvesting in our properties during the early phase of the recovery to position our portfolio for future demand. The plan includes $245 million for redevelopment and repositioning projects such as the completion of the Ritz-Carlton Naples beach transformation and tower expansion, a transformational renovation of the Fairmont Kea Lani, and completion of the Orlando World Center water park and meeting space expansion. It is worth noting that our capital expenditure range at the midpoint is $125 million higher than last year, which is driven by increased investment and ROI development projects as well as more normalized maintenance capex spend. To conclude my remarks, we made significant strides toward improving the quality of our portfolio in 2021. Despite the recent volatility, we remain encouraged by the recovery we are seeing across the lodging industry. Our capital allocation efforts over the past few years, combined with the geographic diversity of our portfolio and our strong balance sheet, leave us very well-positioned to create significant long-term value for our stockholders. With that, I will now turn the call over to Sourav.Sourav Ghosh -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer Thank you, Jim, and good morning, everyone. Following Jim's comments, I will go into detail on our fourth quarter top-line performance, margins, our thoughts for 2022 and provide an update on our balance sheet and dividend. Despite headwinds from two COVID variants, we continue to benefit from quarterly sequential improvements with 70 hotels achieving positive hotel EBITDA for the entire quarter, compared to 61 hotels last quarter. Notably, our three New York City hotels, two Downtown Boston hotels, and the San Francisco Marriott Marquis all achieved positive EBITDA in the fourth quarter. Moving on to top-line performance. Fourth-quarter RevPAR was the highest it has been since the onset of the pandemic. In addition, December had its highest monthly ADR in Host's history, which is indicative of the quality of our assets and the pricing power of this recovery. While these improvements have been driven by leisure, travel in Sunbelt markets in Hawaii, which saw fourth-quarter RevPAR up 15% to $198 over the third quarter. Our urban markets continue to deliver sequential operational improvements. During the fourth quarter, our urban market grew by 13% to a RevPAR of $108, once again representing the best quarter of the recovery for these hotels. Turning to business segments. During the fourth quarter, transient revenue improved 7% over the third quarter, driven by a 9% rate increase. Transient revenue at Sunbelt and Hawaii hotels was up 8% sequentially, driven by a 12% improvement in rate and once again exceeded prior peak levels. Drilling down to resorts, our properties grew transient revenue 30% over the fourth quarter of 2019, driven by a 35% increase in rate. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2019, Alila Ventana Big Sur, one of our recent acquisitions grew revenue by over 130%, which was driven by a rate increase of 98%. For context, that rate equates to more than a $1,000 increase. All 16 of our resorts had rates 20% higher than the fourth quarter of 2019. Transient rate in our urban and downtown markets was up 7% over the third quarter, with demand also up 1%, which was driven by our hotels in New York and D.C. Even with omicron concerns dominating headlines, business transient demand improved by 5% over the third quarter with rate up 20%. This was driven by significant growth in October which had the highest amount of business travel room nights of any month since the onset of the pandemic. Nearly half of our business transient rooms sold in the fourth quarter were in urban and downtown markets where demand was up 16% and the rate was up 10% over the third quarter. Wrapping up on business transient with more encouraging news, we continue to see a return to traditional business travel. In the fourth quarter, our operators, traditional top 10 accounts made up 70% of business transient rooms, which is up from 40% in the third quarter. These accounts are all household names representing a mix of financial services, government contracting, and consulting companies. Turning to group. This segment continued its upward trajectory, we were encouraged by net booking activity in the quarter for the quarter, resulting in 660,000 group rooms sold for the fourth quarter. This level of demand represents 60% of 2019 levels and is up from 52% in the third quarter, putting us at 1.2 million group room nights in the second half of 2021. Group revenue increased 35% over the third quarter, driven by 15% demand growth, combined with a 17% improvement in rate. Most of the room night increase came from Boston, Phoenix, San Diego, and San Francisco. Corporate group room nights increased 11% over the third quarter with a 23% increase in rate. San Antonio and Phoenix drove most of the demand growth in the subsegment. In the fourth quarter, corporate group room nights were 55% of 2019, compared to 29% for the first half of 2021. Association groups also showed steady sequential improvements. Fourth-quarter association group room nights increased 19% over the third quarter with a 15% increase in rate, largely driven by our hotels in San Diego. Association group room nights were 45% of 2019 in the fourth quarter, compared to only 11% for the first half of 2021. Looking forward to our expectations for group in 2022, we currently have 2.8 million definite group room nights on the books, which compares favorably to the 2.5 million group room nights we would have had on the books as of the third quarter after adjusting for our recent acquisitions and dispositions. Group rate in 2022 remains up 1% to 2019. Group demand is currently front-loaded with roughly 60% of definite group rooms booked in the first half of the year. Last quarter, we provided a comparison to 2019 group room nights. At that time, our definite group room nights on the books represented 54% of 2019 actuals. Adjusted for our transactions and including bookings from the fourth quarter, two definite room nights now stand at 60% of 2019 actuals, and total group revenue pace is down just 20% to 2019 and which is an additional testament to the quality of our portfolio and the strength of the lodging recovery. Moving on to expenses. Pro forma total hotel operating costs rose by 15% during the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter despite a 20% increase in total revenues. Variable expenses were down 30% relative to a total revenue decline of 25% when compared to the fourth quarter of 2019. Through February of last year, variable expense declines were roughly in line with revenue expense decline, but this trend diverged as hotels struggled to staff up at the pace of demand growth. Our managers' hiring efforts were successful in the fourth quarter and the differential between our variable expense decline and the revenue decline narrowed compared to the third quarter. Fixed expenses, including wages and benefits were 19% lower than the fourth quarter of 2019 and 9% higher than last quarter. We continue to see savings from reductions in above-property services, which were still down substantially to 2019. As expected, on-property sales efforts are ramping up which offset some of the expense savings in the quarter. Our hotel EBITDA margin in the fourth quarter was 26.9%, which is just about 80 basis points below that of the fourth quarter 2019. When you consider that our revenue is still 25% below its fourth quarter 2019 level, our margins are quite impressive. Given increased levels of staffing and fixed costs that were reintroduced in the second half of 2021, fourth-quarter margin strength was primarily a result of higher resort rates better-than-anticipated food and beverage revenue and elevated cancellation revenues. Turning to our outlook for 2022. We are still unable to provide operational guidance given the continued volatility surrounding COVID. That said, we expect sequential quarterly RevPAR improvements driven by demand growth across our portfolio and continued rate strength at our resorts. We also expect group and business transient to continue improving in our urban and downtown markets as impacts from future COVID variants lesson, companies return to the office and traditional groups get back to meeting in-person. As a reminder, Easter is much later this year. So some of the pickup we would normally get at the end of the first quarter could bleed into the second quarter. Although we are not able to provide operational guidance, we would like to provide expected ranges for our corporate G&A and interest expense. For the full year, we anticipate corporate G&A to be in the $103 million to $106 million range, and we anticipate our interest expense to be in the $146 million to $149 million range. From a timing perspective, we expect these expenses to be relatively evenly spread over each quarter in 2022. Turning to our balance sheet and liquidity position. As we discussed last quarter, we were able to exit our credit facility covenant waiver period three quarters ahead of its expiration, and we achieved compliance with our bond indenture debt incurrence covenant. As a result, we were able to refinance a portion of our existing bonds with $450 million of new Series J green bonds at a 2.9% coupon, the lowest in the company's history. We also extended our weighted average maturity from 4.2 to 5.1 years, lowered our weighted average interest rate to 3.1% and push our next maturity out to early 2024. In addition, during the fourth quarter and subsequent to quarter end, we paid down our outstanding revolver in full. Together, these actions will save us an estimated $5 million per quarter in interest expense. Pro forma for the revolver paydowns and the sale of the Sheraton Boston earlier this month, we now have $1.8 billion in total available liquidity, comprised of approximately $200 million of cash, $144 million of FF&E reserves, and full availability of our $1.5 billion credit facility. Wrapping up, I am pleased to share that the board of directors authorized a first-quarter dividend of $0.03 per share on Host's common stock. All future dividends are subject to approval by the company's board of directors. But as the operational recovery continues, we expect to be able to grow our dividend to a sustainable level. To conclude, we are extremely proud of our achievements over the past year. 2021 showed that a sustained recovery is underway, and we are optimistic that 2022 will continue to build on the strong momentum of the past few quarters. We remain very well-positioned to execute on our goal of increasing the EBITDA growth profile and improving the quality of our portfolio. With that, we would be happy to take your questions. [Operator instructions] 