
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Comcast Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the call over to Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Ms. Marci Ryvicker. Please go ahead, Ms. Ryvicker.Marci Ryvicker -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, operator, and welcome everyone. Joining me on this morning's call are Brian Roberts, Mike Cavanagh, Dave Watson, Jeff Shell and Dana Strong. Brian and Mike will make formal remarks, while Dave, Jeff and Dana will also be available for Q&A.Let me now refer you to Slide two, which contains our Safe Harbor disclaimer and remind you that this conference call may include forward-looking statements, subject to certain risks and uncertainties. In addition, during this call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please see our 8-K and trending schedules for the reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.With that, let me turn the call over to Brian Roberts for his comments. Brian?Brian L. Roberts -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Marci, and good morning everyone. We had a wonderful third quarter across the entire company with 18% growth in adjusted EBITDA and 34% growth in adjusted EPS, and we generated $3.2 billion of free cash flow. One of our goals the past several years has been to return to a position of offensively investing in our existing businesses, paying a growing dividend and also buying back meaningful amounts of stock. So I'm pleased to report that we have now achieved all of that in this quarter and we are back to our desired leverage ratios.Our Cable division continues to be a standout delivering over 7% revenue growth and the fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit EBITDA growth of 10%, fueled by our broadband business, which generated 300,000 net additions and contributed to a very healthy 255,000 net new customer relationships. Business services has emerged from the pandemic and was also a key driver of our results and we believe this momentum will continue.Our success comes from our network advantage, innovative products and world-class operational capabilities, which enable us to provide an unparalleled experience. Just like in residential, we are proactively responding to the needs of our commercial customers and offering personalized solutions.While small business has led our growth for the last decade. We are still significantly underpenetrated in the mid-market and enterprise segments. We see a lot of potential to take share in our large addressable market, which just got even bigger post our recent acquisition of Masergy, which builds on our strong offering of technology solutions. Masergy has become a leading provider to companies worldwide and unlocks a customer segment that we don't have today, particularly US-based organizations with multi-site global operations.

 



Xfinity Mobile exceeded its prior record, adding 285,000 lines, the most in any quarter since launch, and we continue to evaluate ways we can accelerate this business even further as wireline and wireless connectivity services continue to converge. We are looking at new exciting products and packaging that highlight how we're able to provide our customers with the best and most reliable broadband, wherever they are, wherever they go and help them save money at the same time. And with only 6% penetration of our 32 million broadband customers, we have a long runway.Taking all of this together, we have an incredibly robust broadband business and we've been adding over a million broadband customers each year for the past 20 plus years, and we continue to deepen these relationships by offering a fantastic and differentiated in-home experience with the fastest modem and gateway and the greatest WiFi coverage. We plan to continue our relentless focus on aggressively developing and improving our suite of products around connectivity.The foundation of all of this is our network and we are currently in the process of deploying new technology, updating key infrastructure and accelerating virtualization across our footprint, so that we can deliver even further enhancements fast and it's scale to millions of customers, and we will continue to evaluate every opportunity we have to expand our passings, which will bring our amazing suite of products and services to many new homes and businesses.All of Dave Watson and his team superb execution is around decades of investment that has led to constant new product innovation, including this month's launch of XClass TV, an extension of our leadership and video aggregation. XClass is an innovative smart television powered by our global technology platform that brings the best of our company's entertainment operating system to consumers nationwide, together with the option to use either Xfinity, charter or other entertainment apps.At NBCUniversal, we continue to see great progress in each of our businesses. But I'd like to highlight our theme parks especially Orlando, which just reported the most profitable quarter in its history, despite having virtually no international guests, due to COVID related travel restraints. In Hollywood, we continue to see recovery and we had a very successful exciting opening of Universal Beijing Resort on September 20th. I also look forward to COVID-related restrictions easing in Osaka, which could happen soon.Our media business is also doing very well. We're benefiting from the many changes Jeff Shell and his team implemented starting in 2020, with new hires, different roles, fresh content and a more efficient operating structure. We're seeing the financial success in both our linear networks, as well as Peacock, which has maintained its momentum. We have a new breakout hit with La Brea, which has been a contributor to NBC's overall audience lead this prime-time season, as well as the best performing new show on Peacock.Sunday Night Football has returned with great momentum, which we're seeing across our platforms and we're thrilled with the performance of our second Halloween instalment, which generated more revenue in its opening weekend at the domestic box office that any other film this year with a day and date streaming release, and is the number one non-live event premier in Peacock's history.We're also looking forward to extending our streaming platforms outside of the US with Peacock launching on Sky next month and Sky Showtime in the works for mid-2022. At Sky, I want to reemphasize how well we're performing in the UK, which continues its growth trajectory and customer relationships, led by record low churn. We're also seeing great momentum in our broadband and mobile businesses.Earlier this month, Dana Strong and her team introduced Sky Glass in London. The premium, all in one streaming television and multichannel subscription package that is so much more than just a stunning TV with amazing sound. It's an innovation platform that opens up a whole new world of entertainment for our customers and simplifies the experience so they can stream every channel every show and every app in one easy to use interface. And already the customer response has very much exceeded our initial expectations.We're also incredibly proud that Sky Glass is the first TV to be certified carbon-neutral. Sky has been leading all of Comcast with its sustainability goals and is the first media company in the UK to commit to being net carbon zero by 2030. While Glass and XClass were distinct products with different monetization and distribution strategies to extend our customer base beyond our previous capabilities and they run off the same global technology platform. This allows us to quickly bring the best features to consumers across territories, segments and brands and on Comcast hardware and through our syndication partners.I'm pleased to also announce today that Apple will bring Apple TV Plus and the Apple TV app to our Xfinity and Sky customers on X1, Flex, XClass, Sky Glass and Sky Q devices and Comcast is bringing the Xfinity stream and Sky Go apps to Apple TV devices. We're working together with our partners to deliver the best apps and experiences on our platforms and our teams are sharing capabilities and collaborating across the company. Collectively, drawing on our scale and leadership in broadband, aggregation and streaming to innovate and profitably serve new and existing customers.Looking ahead, I am excited about the opportunities we have to both invest in our business and return capital through buybacks and dividends, all while maintaining leverage around current levels and I believe we are extremely well positioned to continue our track record of building long-term shareholder value.So, I'm pleased to now hand it over to Mike for more detail on this strong quarter.Michael J. Cavanagh -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Brian, and good morning everyone. I'll begin on Slide four with our third quarter consolidated 2021 results. Revenue increased 19% to $30.3 billion. Adjusted EBITDA increased 18% to $9 billion, adjusted EPS increased 34% to $0.87 per share. And finally, we generated $3.2 billion of free cash flow.Now let's turn to our business segment results, starting with Cable Communications on Slide five. Cable revenue increased 7.4% to $16.1 billion; EBITDA increased 10% to $7.1 billion and net cash flow grew 16% to $5 billion. As a reminder, comparisons to last year, were impacted by adjustments accrued for customer RSN fees. Excluding these adjustments Cable Communications revenue increased 6.3% with no corresponding impact to EBITDA.We added 255,000 net new customer relationships in the quarter. Once again, driven by broadband where we added 300,000 net new residential and business customers. We continue to benefit from high levels of customer retention with broadband, churn improving to the lowest rate for any third quarter on record.The strong level of net customer additions over the past year, including this third quarter coupled with higher average revenue per customer drove broadband revenue growth of 12%. This growth was about a point lower, excluding the RSN fee adjustments in last year's results.Wireless and business services also drove our strong Cable revenue growth. Wireless revenue grew 51%, driven by growth in customer lines and higher device sales. Overall, we added 285,000 lines in the quarter, the best result since launching this business in 2017, bringing total mobile lines to 3.7 million. Business services revenue increased 8.7%, reflecting an increase in rates and customers, primarily driven by the continued improvement in small businesses. We added 18,000 net new customers in the quarter and 72,000 over the past year. We recently closed on our acquisition of Masergy, which enables us to offer a broader range of products and solutions to mid-market and enterprise customers and expands our market opportunity to customers with a global presence.Moving to video, revenue increased 1.4% and was flat excluding the RSN fee adjustments in last year's third quarter, driven by a residential rate increase at the beginning of the year, mostly offset by video subscriber net losses, totaling 408,000 this quarter. Last advertising revenue increased 4.6%, reflecting a strong overall market recovery, compared to last year's third quarter, which was impacted by COVID, partially offset by lower political advertising. As a reminder, the fourth quarter year-over-year comparison will be impacted by record levels of political advertising last year.Turning to expenses. Cable Communications third quarter expenses increased 5.3%. Programming expenses increased 7.6%, mainly reflecting the comparison to last year, which benefited from RSN adjustments. Excluding these programming expenses were up 2.8%, as we begin to lap the large number of contract renewals that started to cycle through in 2020. Non-programming expenses increased 3.9% and decreased 0.8% on a per relationship basis, reflecting our investment to drive growth in our core businesses, broadband, wireless and business services. This resulted in higher technical and product support and advertising, marketing and promotion expenses, which were partially offset by lower bad debt and customer service expense.Cable Communications EBITDA increased 10% to $7.1 billion, including a contribution of $51 million from our wireless business. Cable EBITDA margin reached 43.9%, reflecting 120 basis points of year-over-year improvement, while the RSN fee adjustments had no impact on EBITDA they did impact margins last year. Excluding the RSN adjustment impact, our margin expanded 160 basis points year-over-year. Cable capital expenditures decreased 5.4%, resulting in capex intensity of 10.4%. While there is typically some choppiness in Cable capex from quarter-to-quarter, mainly due to timing.Now let's turn to Slide six for NBCUniversal. Starting with total NBCUniversal results, revenue increased 58% to $10 billion and EBITDA increased 48% to $1.35 billion. Media revenue increased 48% to $6.8 billion, including $1.8 billion associated with the Tokyo Olympics. Excluding the Olympics, revenue increased 9.2%, driven by higher distribution and advertising revenue. Distribution revenue increased over 12%, reflecting higher rates post the successful completion of several carriage renewals at the end of 2020, and a growing contribution from Peacock, partially offset by subscriber declines, which have been stable for the past few quarters.Advertising revenue increased 7.2%, reflecting an overall market recovery, compared to last year, very strong demand in pricing for our ad inventory, a higher contribution from Peacock, and a solid start to the new fall season, including strong NFL ratings, partially offset by the timing of sporting events, compared to last year when several events had shifted from the second quarter to the third quarter.Media EBITDA increased 1.2% to $997 million, including results of Tokyo Olympics. The favorable comparison on the timing of other sporting events and Peacock losses that were impacted by higher costs associated with the day and date release of The Boss Baby business.As a reminder, our fourth quarter results will face a difficult comparison to last year, due to higher costs associated with the timing of more sporting events at our regional sports network, an increase in our original entertainment as we continue to launch our fall season and the inclusion of our latest studio release Halloween Kills on Peacock.Studios revenue increased 27%, driven fairly equally by growth in theatrical and content licensing revenue. The increase in theatrical revenue reflected the continued success of F9, as well as several new releases, including The Boss Baby family business, which was in theaters and on Peacock. In addition content licensing revenue growth benefited from the delivery of content to our networks, Peacock and third-parties. Studio EBITDA declined 47% to $179 million, driven by higher amortization of television and film production costs as we returned to pre-COVID levels of production and investment in marketing and promotion to launch our new films.Looking to the fourth quarter, EBITDA comparisons to last year will remain challenging in the short-term, as we launch new theatrical releases and ramp our TV productions, which had been impacted by the pandemic.Moving to Theme Parks, revenue increased by $1.1 billion to $1.4 billion and we generated EBITDA of $434 million, which included about $130 million of Universal Beijing preopening costs. This was our most profitable quarter, since the pandemic began in the first quarter of 2020, driven by improved operating results at our US Parks, including strong domestic attendance and per caps that were above pre-pandemic levels.In fact, as Brian noted Universal Orlando delivered its highest EBITDA for any quarter in its history. At Universal Studios Japan results were challenging, as we continue to operate under government capacity restrictions, keeping attendance below 2019 levels. Last, we opened Universal Beijing on September 20th with the initial demand has been positive. While our parks offer a great experience year round, we expect some seasonality given Beijing's weather conditions with lower attendance in the fall and winter and more in spring and summer. So overall, our Parks, we are encouraged by the continued recovery, but getting back to and then exceeding pre-pandemic levels of EBITDA will likely require an improvement in international visitation.Now let's turn to Slide seven for Sky, which I will speak to on a constant currency basis. For the third quarter Sky revenue was $5 billion and relatively consistent, compared to last year. Direct-to-consumer revenue was also consistent with last year's result, primarily reflecting strong growth in the UK, driven by continued growth in customer relationships and higher ARPU due to the positive impact of a rate increase earlier this year.Higher mobile device sales and the continued turnaround in hospitality revenue as pubs and clubs come back. This was offset by a decrease in customer relationships and ARPU in Italy, mainly due to a negative impact from the reduction in broadcast rights to Serie A. Sky's overall customer relationships declined 233,000 entirely driven by customer losses in Italy.Advertising revenue increased 16% with the results in the UK driving the bulk of the growth and reflecting the overall market recovery from COVID-19. This increase was offset by a 26% decline in content revenue, driven by the change in sports licensing agreements in Italy in Germany, as well as the timing of sports events, compared to last year, when several events had shifted from the second quarter to the third quarter due to COVID-19.Turning to our EBITDA results. During the quarter, there was a change in the way we amortize sports rights. This cost is now aligned more directly to when games are played, including one seasons begin and end, this resulted in a $130 million benefit in the third quarter, which will reverse in the fourth quarter. Going forward, this change will continue to impact the quarterly pattern of recognizing sports rights amortization costs with expense higher in the first and fourth quarters and lower in the second and third quarters. But it should not impact our full-year results.Overall, Sky's EBITDA increased 76%, reflecting this benefit, as well as lower sports programming costs due to resets in our sports rates and the favorable comparison on the timing of sporting events. Before I comment on capital returns and balance sheet, let me make a comment on our corporate and other segment. As we've done in the past with other start-up activities, launch costs related to Sky Glass and XClass were reported in our corporate segment, which could become more meaningful beginning with this fourth quarter.Now I'll wrap up with free cash flow and capital allocation on Slide eight. We generated $3.2 billion of free cash flow this quarter, including a $670 million benefit related to the tax impact of the bond exchange we completed in August. Consolidated total capital was $2.9 billion for the quarter and as expected net working capital increased, reflecting our broadcast of the Olympics, as well as the continued post-COVID ramp of investment in studio content.Return of capital totaled $2.7 billion, including $1.2 billion of dividend payments and $1.5 billion of share repurchase activity. Our net leverage at quarter end was 2.4 times, which means we are now back at a level that is consistent with our existing ratings and reflects substantial progress in both debt reduction and a strong rebound in our businesses post the pandemic.From here my expectation has that we keep our leverage ratio around where we currently are and continue to execute on our capital allocation priorities, which consists of maintaining a strong balance sheet, investing organically for profitable growth and returning capital to shareholders. Looking ahead, our buyback will be a function of that balance and excess free cash flow available for capital returns.With that, I'll turn it back to Marci, who will lead the question-and-answer portion of the call.Marci Ryvicker -- Senior Vice President, Investor RelationsThanks, Mike. Operator, let's open up the call for questions, please.