  OperatorGood afternoon and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Western Digital's fiscal third-quarter 2021 conference call. [Operator instructions] Now, I will turn the call over to Mr. Peter Andrew. You may begin.Peter Andrew -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you and good afternoon everyone. Joining me today are David Goeckeler, chief executive officer; and Bob Eulau, chief financial officer. Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's discussion contains forward-looking statements, including product portfolio expectations, business plans, trends and financial outlook based on management's current assumptions and expectations and, as such, does include risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update these statements. Please refer to our most recent report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. We will also make references to non-GAAP financial measures today. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP and comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release and other materials that are being posted in the investor relations section of our website. With that, I will now turn the call over to David.David Goeckeler -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Peter. Good afternoon, everyone and thanks for joining the call today. We reported solid third-quarter results above the guidance range provided in January, with revenue of $4.1 billion, non-GAAP gross margin of 27.7% and non-GAAP earnings per share of $1.02. Sequential revenue growth was driven by increasing momentum of our high capacity energy-assisted drives and our second-generation NVMe enterprise SSDs, improving NAND flash pricing trends, along with the continued accelerated digital transformation across end markets.

 



 As we continue to manage the impact of the pandemic, we know that the world is not only more technology-enabled, but also more technology dependent than ever before. From the intelligent edge to the cloud, data storage is a fundamental component underpinning the global technology architecture. Western Digital's strengths in technology and cost leadership, expansive product portfolio and broad routes to market are providing a foundation upon which we are solidifying our position as an essential building block of the digital economy. These strengths, combined with our increased operational and strategic focus enabled by our new business unit structure, are driving results. As we continue to face a dynamic environment, we are seeing the benefits of the synergistic value in the breadth of Western Digital's portfolio, and our unique ability to deliver both hard drives and flash solutions to our diverse end markets and customer base. Let me now provide a recap of our flash and HDD businesses. Within flash, the depth and breadth of our product line, distribution channels, cost leadership and customer base are significant differentiators. Our ability to act swiftly and shift bits to meet customer demand in various end markets, ranging from data centers to retail, enabled us to grow both revenue and gross margin in the third quarter. Within data center devices and solutions, we experienced significant growth in the quarter with our second-generation NVMe enterprise SSD in a cloud titan. In addition, we are seeing many cloud customers also utilize NAND flash for their consumer product lines. This creates many opportunities for us as a strategic partner as we continue to diversify and balance the end markets we serve. We are already achieving significant progress in VR headsets, game consoles and other at-home entertainment devices where we have experienced over 10 times bit growth last calendar year and expect to double again this calendar year. In client devices, continued strength in PC demand, along with the new game console ramps drove sequential revenue growth above typical seasonal trends. Retail remained a high-performing end market as our brand recognition, broad product portfolio and extensive distribution channels continue to distinguish Western Digital from our competitors. In particular, it was a solid quarter for gaming with our WD Black product line having maintained strong levels of interest as gamers have gravitated toward more customized solutions. By delivering reliable performance, expansive storage capabilities and a hyperrealistic gaming experience, our industry-leading WD Black portfolio is trusted by gamers to perform their best.

 



 We are also excited about the future as Western Digital's technology road map and cost leadership will continue to drive our ability to meet customers' needs. BiCS5 is in the midst of a significant ramp, exceeding customers' expectations and delivering the reliability and performance our customers depend upon. Moreover, the technology advancements we made with BiCS5 have allowed us to achieve the scale, efficiency and bit growth needed while using a lower number of layers resulting in lower costs and lower capital intensity. We continue to expect BiCS5 bit crossover later in 2021. Finally, in February, we revealed BiCS6, our next-generation flash device, based on 162 layer and CuA technology, developed in partnership with Kioxia as part of our long-standing successful joint venture, BiCS6 features numerous architectural advancements, including improved lateral scaling, which allows us to deliver this high-performing product at an optimal cost. This marks another major milestone in our 20-year relationship with Kioxia. And together, we will continue to drive innovation to meet the needs of our respective customers in their diverse applications. In HDD, revenue growth was led by capacity enterprise drives, a trend that tilts the overall HDD market to growth as demand for capacity enterprise drives will more than offset the decline in client drives. Meanwhile, retail HDD demand was better than expected, supported by continued work from home, distance learning and at-home entertainment trends. We continue to see enterprise demand stabilizing and expect to pick up as employees return to work. We have completed qualifications for our energy-assisted drives with nearly all our cloud and enterprise customers, including all the cloud titans and expect an aggressive ramp of our 18-terabyte hard drives. Building on this success, we've entered into long-term agreements with a number of our cloud titans for 18-terabyte drives. These commitments underscore our product leadership and the importance of capacity enterprise drives to our data center customers. As we continue to navigate challenges brought on by COVID-19, we know that the world is not only more technology-enabled, but also more technology dependent. We believe this is a fundamental and sustainable trend, highlighting the importance of Western Digital's broad portfolio of storage solutions, and we're encouraged by what's ahead. In flash, improving pricing trends in the retail and transactional portions of the market are translating to better pricing in a negotiated portions of the market, and we expect this trend to continue in the fiscal fourth quarter. Our unique ability to provide high volumes of flash and hard drive solutions through extensive distribution channels and to diversified end markets provides us with broad demand visibility, enabling our team to optimize product mix and profitability. In the cloud, we remain uniquely positioned to benefit from the strong growth in this sector, where NAND flash and hard drives are complementary solutions. We expect the strength to build as we progress through the calendar year, led by the ramp of our 18-terabyte hard drives as well as broad-based growth in flash. And while we are excited about these drivers, we are also keeping close watch on some headwinds. To date, we have been able to largely mitigate the impact of the industrywide semiconductor component shortages through proactive supply chain management. We are, however, experiencing tightness in controllers as well as flash, which could limit potential upside in the future. We also recognize that while the pandemic effects are lessening in some regions, others are unfortunately experiencing another wave of cases. We are actively managing through this environment, which continues to have ongoing impacts to our business. I'll now turn the call over to Bob to share details on our financial results.Bob Eulau -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Dave and good afternoon, everyone. As Dave mentioned, overall results for the third fiscal quarter were above the upper end of the guidance ranges provided in January. flash revenue and gross margin improvement were the primary contributors to the upside versus guidance. Total revenue was $4.1 billion, up 5% sequentially and down 1% year over year. Looking at our end markets, client devices revenue was $2 billion, down 6% sequentially and up 10% year over year. On a sequential basis, client SSD revenue was flat and notebook and desktop PC hard drive revenue was down, though it decreased less than what we're used to seeing based on typical seasonality. Gaming revenue grew, while mobile revenue was down on a sequential basis. Moving on to data center devices and solutions. Revenue was $1.2 billion, up 53% sequentially, but down 19% from a year ago. Revenue from both capacity enterprise hard drives and enterprise SSDs grew sequentially. We were encouraged to see the sequential growth driven by our new energy-assisted hard drives at the 16- and 18-terabyte capacity points and our second-generation NVMe enterprise SSD products, both targeted for the cloud and large-scale enterprise OEMs. Lastly, client solutions revenue was $888 million, down 12% sequentially and up 8% from a year ago. Turning to revenue by technology. flash revenue was $2.2 billion, up 7% sequentially and up 6% year over year. flash ASPs were down 2% sequentially on a blended basis and flat on a like-for-like basis. flash bit shipments increased 8% sequentially. Hard drive revenue was $2 billion, up 3% sequentially and down 7% year over year. On a sequential basis, total hard drive exabyte shipments increased by 7%, while the average price per hard drive increased 14% to $82. As we move to costs and expenses, please note that my comments will be related to non-GAAP results, unless stated otherwise. Gross margin for the third quarter was 27.7%, up 1.3 percentage points sequentially. This was above the upper end of the guidance range provided in January. Continued success in driving down costs, coupled with an improving pricing environment and our ability to shift bits to more attractive end markets, drove our flash gross margin up 2.9 percentage points sequentially to 30%. Our hard drive gross margin was 25%, down 0.5 percentage points sequentially. As noted last quarter, production ramp costs of our new energy-assisted drives and a planned reduction in overall units shipped pressured gross margin. This also includes COVID-19-related impact of $31 million or approximately 1.6 percentage points. Operating expenses of $732 million were higher than guidance due to a larger-than-expected variable compensation accrual tied to our improved profitability. With our improving profitability, our tax rate in the fiscal third quarter was 8%, which was well below our prior expectations and directly resulted in a $0.17 benefit to our earnings per share. We now expect our tax rate to be 17% for fiscal year 2021. Earnings per share was $1.02. Excluding the tax benefit, earnings per share was still well above guidance. Operating cash flow for the third quarter was $116 million and free cash flow was negative $11 million. Capital expenditures, which include the purchase of property, plant and equipment and activity related to flash joint ventures on our cash flow statement was a cash outflow of $127 million. In the fiscal third quarter, we paid off $212 million in debt, including an optional debt paydown of $150 million. We'll also be making an additional optional debt payment of $150 million this Friday, highlighting the confidence we have in our cash flow generation for the fourth quarter. Our liquidity position continues to be strong. At the end of the quarter, we had $2.7 billion in cash and cash equivalents, and our gross debt outstanding was $9 billion. Our adjusted EBITDA, as defined in our credit agreement, was $3.5 billion, resulting in a gross leverage of 2.6x. As a reminder, our credit agreement includes a $1 billion add-back of depreciation associated with the joint ventures. This is not reflected in our cash flow statement. Please refer to the earnings presentation on the investor relations website for further details. Moving on to our outlook. Our fiscal fourth-quarter non-GAAP guidance is as follows. We expect revenues to be in the range of $4.4 billion to $4.6 billion, and we expect both hard drive and flash revenue to be up sequentially. We expect gross margin to be between 30% and 32%. We expect both flash and hard drive gross margin to improve sequentially as well. We expect operating expenses to be between $760 million and $790 million. Interest and other expense is expected to be between $68 million and $73 million. The tax rate is expected to be approximately 17% in the fourth quarter and the fiscal year. We expect earnings per share to be between $1.30 and $1.60 in the fourth quarter, assuming approximately 317 million fully diluted shares outstanding. Now, I'll turn it back over to Dave.David Goeckeler -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Bob. As technology continues to advance, our powerful portfolio will remain centered on developing solutions to our customers' evolving storage needs. Western Digital's unique ability to offer complementary flash and hard drive products benefits the industry, our customers and our company as a whole. While market conditions continue improving, I believe the organization and leadership changes made over the last year are now delivering more agility, better execution and a stronger portfolio and collectively are driving results and unlocking the underlying strengths of Western Digital. We are in a unique leadership position and feel confident that we can continue to drive innovation, while delivering value for all of our stakeholders. We will now begin the Q&A session.Aaron Rakers -- Wells Fargo Securities -- Analyst Yeah. Thanks for letting me ask a question and congratulations on the execution in the quarter. I guess the first question I have is, you mentioned in your prepared remarks about establishing long-term purchase agreements with some of the cloud customers or cloud titans. Can you help us appreciate that a little bit more? Can you give us any context of how those agreements are structured? Are they volume-related? Are they take and pay? Just any kind of clarity on that. And how that would compare to kind of prior engagements with those customers on product cycles?David Goeckeler -- Chief Executive Officer Yeah. Hi, Aaron. Thank you. Yeah, it's something we've been working on for a while, I guess. I mean when I got here a year ago, it kind of struck me that it was a big business and it was very transactional. And the more certainty we could put around, it would be better for all of us, especially going into a world where we're going to be investing capital in this business. We're trying to judge supply and demand and get that right as the market shifts to capacity enterprise. So there are multi-quarter agreements, as you would imagine. And we talk about the amount of demand they are going to have, and we set a price for that period. So as opposed to just going quarter by quarter, we're extending that out to multi-quarter agreements to give us both more visibility around the business.Aaron Rakers -- Wells Fargo Securities -- Analyst OK. And I guess maybe somewhat related to that, just thinking about the hard disk drive business as my follow-up is I guess a simple question is, how do we go from a 25% gross margin back to what I think is still probably the target of at least 30%, if not higher gross margin in hard disk drives? How do we think about the variables to bring us back to that 30% plus level?David Goeckeler -- Chief Executive Officer Well, I think -- I mean -- so the first part is getting out of COVID. I think we had 1.6% impact on gross margin due to COVID, so that continues to be an issue. And we're all hoping things continue to get better there. Obviously, mix is a question -- an issue as we get more client in the work from home. That's not necessarily a bad thing, but it's definitely a different margin profile. And then getting to scale on the capacity points where we can continue to drive the costs down. And -- we can't control the pricing in the market, but continuing to deliver a strong TCO proposition for our customers. And that's what we're continuing to do. We believe we have a long road map of continued density and aerial density improvements on HDDs. They're the foundational storage element in the cloud, which I think is a very good place to be and so we're working on it from all of those angles.Aaron Rakers -- Wells Fargo Securities -- Analyst Great. Thank you.David Goeckeler -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Aaron.Bob Eulau -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Aaron. 