  OperatorHello, and welcome to the Constellation Brands fiscal year 2022 Q4 full year earnings call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Patty Yahn-Urlaub, senior vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead.Patty Yahn-Urlaub -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Kevin. Good morning, and welcome to Constellation's year-end fiscal '22 conference call. I'm here this morning with Bill Newlands, our CEO; and Garth Hankinson, our CFO. As a reminder, reconciliations between the most directly comparable GAAP measure and any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call are included in our news release or otherwise available on the company's website at cbrands.com.

 



 Please refer to the news release and Constellation's SEC filings for risk factors which may impact forward-looking statements we make on this call. Before turning the call over to Bill, similar to prior quarters, I would like to ask that we limit everyone to one question per person which will help us to end our call on time. Thanks in advance, and now here's Bill. Bill Newlands -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Patty. Good morning, and welcome to our fiscal '22 year-end call. Before I get started this morning, I'd like to comment on the announcement made earlier this week relating to the proposal from the Sands family to declassify Constellation's dual share class structure. According to the family's filing, the proposal brings significant benefits that will accrue to the company and its shareholders, including increasing market finance from investors who prefer single-class structures. The proposal is under consideration and will be negotiated explicitly by the special committee of our board of directors, and any agreement reached with the Sands family will require the approval of that special committee, as well as our full board of directors. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the proposal, it would require the approval of holders of a majority of our Class A common stock that do not also hold shares of our Class B common stock I'd like to remind everyone that the Sands family proposal was not made in connection with a corporate transaction. Constellation does not intend to comment further on the proposal. Unless and until a definitive agreement is reached, the proposal is abandoned or otherwise deemed advisable in connection with any further public disclosure by the Sands family.

 



 With that, let's proceed with the discussion of our excellent results and our guidance for fiscal '23. As I reflect on our performance for fiscal '22, I'm extremely proud of how our team pulled together to deliver a year of double-digit organic net sales growth and strong cash flow generation. Our team accomplished this while battling through year two of the pandemic, including various supply chain challenges, adverse weather events, rising inflation, rapidly shifting consumer preferences, and a host of other issues in the surrounding environment. Through it all, we stayed true to who we are and remain laser-focused on our consumers and building brands that people love. We launched our consumer-led innovation while continuing to invest in future capabilities needed to win long term. We continue to deliver on our commitments to return value to shareholders and to serve the interest of all stakeholders by making a positive impact on our communities and the environment. In fact, earlier this morning as part of our ongoing commitment to environmental stewardship, we announced our new targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 15% by fiscal '25 and to restore 1 billion gallons of water withdrawals from critical watersheds, and improved water accessibility in disadvantaged communities where we operate in each case by fiscal '25. With that as a backdrop, I'd like to frame up what we believe are key takeaways from our performance in fiscal '22 as we head into our new fiscal year. First, our strong overall performance continues to be headlined by our beer business, which delivered its 12th consecutive year of volume growth. Our beer portfolio led by our Modelo and Corona brand families posted net sales growth of 11% and added 30 million cases of high-end growth, extending its leadership position as the No. 1 high-end beer supplier and the No. 1 share gainer across the U.S. beer market. Second, our wine and spirits business delivered strong organic net sales growth of 9% and solid gross margin improvement for the fiscal year. Our enhanced focus on consumer-led premiumization in wine and spirits continue to yield benefits as our high-end brands outpaced the overall U.S. line and spirits category, primarily driven by Kim Crawford, Meiomi, and the Prisoner.

 



 Third, we continue to execute against our stated capital allocation strategy, returning nearly $2 billion to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends in fiscal '22. We continue to demonstrate this commitment with this morning's announcement of a $500 million accelerated share repurchase program, which, when completed, will bring us to about 75% of our $5 billion goal. Our continued strong performance in fiscal '22 and the investments we continue to make in our core business provide a nice springboard for another successful year ahead. Now let's dive a little deeper into our business performance in '22 and our outlook for the year ahead. One outlook of our success -- one hallmark of our success has been our beer business over the years has been the strength and continuity of leadership. Earlier this year, we announced that Jim Sabia assumed the role of President of our beer business. As many of you know, Jim has played a key role in the success of our beer business for many years, and we look forward to further building on the momentum under his leadership. Jim succeeds Paul Hetterich, who will continue to work with our beer operations team in Mexico to support our ongoing brewery projects in Nava and Obregon, as well as the construction of our new brewery in the state of Veracruz. Paul has been a driving force behind the success of our economy, including our beer business for more than 35 years. I look forward to continuing to work with Paul, Jim, and the rest of our beer team to accelerate traction of our high-performing beer portfolio in fiscal '23. There are several industry trends that provide a solid platform for our portfolio growth in the year ahead. Total beverage alcohol servings per capita are expected to remain stable with growth of about 1% to 2% annually based on population growth expectations. Premiumization in the beer category is projected to continue with the high-end segment taking share from the mainstream segment. Mexican imports, primarily driven by the Constellation portfolio, are expected to continue to drive traditional beer growth and will continue to be a key driver of gains in the overall beer segment. Significant growth is projected in the flavors category, including seltzers, flavored beer, RTD spirits, flavored malt beverages with all categories exhibiting strong future growth prospects. The on-premise segment has rebounded and is expected to continue to recover to drive incremental category growth. And finally, three-tier e-commerce and digitally influenced sales have proven sticky for beer with revenue and share growing significantly. In fact, this channel is forecasted to deliver over-indexed growth relative to other channels. Each of these trends, combined with Hispanic demographic tailwinds that work in our favor, either aligns with the core strengths of our beer business, are areas where we're investing to build capabilities needed to more fully compete and win. We have one of the most focused and highly efficient portfolios in the industry with a long runway for growth ahead. Our inventory position has been rebuilt, and we have plans to invest aggressively behind our brands in fiscal '23. We also got some exciting new consumer-led innovation on the way. Modelo Especial is the No. 2 beer brand in dollar sales in the country and has significant distribution runway over the medium term to facilitate mid- to high single-digit total annual volume growth in the off-premise. Modelo Especial currently under indexes with non-Hispanic consumers, but has strong momentum and grew household penetration, 7% to 20%. I wish it was 70, but it was 20 with these consumers in the past two years, yet there's still significant opportunity to close the awareness gap in order to drive further household penetration. For reference, Modelo Especial currently has only 80% of the household penetration of Corona Extra. We believe increasing total market penetration for Modelo Especial to Corona Extra levels will enable access to more than 2 million incremental consumers. Modelo Especial is the No. 5 draft brand in the entire category, yet it only has 11% national distribution. This distribution opportunity, along with the velocity the brand delivers, makes Modelo Especial brand our biggest on-premise priority. In the F&B space, our Modelo Chelada brand family has become an important growth contributor to our portfolio as the No. 1 chelada in the U.S. beer market. For Modelo Chelada, we're forecasting double-digit CAGRs in the medium term, driven by extended channel distribution with new pack sizes, formats, and flavors. Current awareness levels from Modelo Chelada are low relative to other flavor categories and large competitors. We expect to improve awareness and accelerate growth of Modelo Chelada through maximizing social and digital media investments to broaden our demographic reach to general market consumers, as well as Spanish language TV, to stay connected to core Hispanic consumers. Within our Chelada lineup, we're aiming for additional growth for a product line that grew over 30% last year, has tripled in size over the past five years, and where we own almost 50% of the market nationwide. In fiscal '23, we're introducing a 12-ounce, 12-pack of [inaudible] and a new Chelada flavor, Naranja Picosa in orange and chili flavor. We're also extending the Modelo brand into new spaces to bring authentic Mexican flair to both lighter beer styles and favored cocktail-inspired beer. Modelo Oro is a premium, sessionable light cerveza with low-calories and carbs rolling out in three test markets: Charlotte, Fresno, and Houston. This is a full-flavored beer that fits an active lifestyle. Another product aimed at the low-calorie crowd is Modelo Cantarito Style Cerveza, a beer with fruit juice that mimics a popular Mexican beverage. It's rolling out in Atlanta, San Diego, and Arizona and celebrates the strong Mexican culture and heritage we see throughout the U.S. Shifting gears. We're excited by the resurgence of Corona Extra, which continues to be one of the most loved brands in the U.S. beer market. While modest growth is projected for Corona Extra in fiscal '23, this brand has over-indexed brand equity, indicating higher growth potential, both for the master brand and broader brand family, including younger and multicultural consumers, where we see significant opportunity to increase buy rates. Corona Extra also has a fairly high household penetration, yet it still lags behind some large competitors. Distribution opportunities also exist for Corona Premier as there are still significant effective distribution gaps versus Corona Extra. And while buy rates continue to grow for Corona Premier, it still trails behind competing brands, indicating a significant opportunity to increase velocity. Premier is currently underdeveloped in the can format relative to its competitors, as experience indicates that cans are the preferred format for light beer drinkers. And we see a significant unlock with the launch of new packages and format sizes. Finally, consumers have embraced Corona Premier in the on-premise, and our craft focus this year is designed to accelerate that trend. For the Pacifico brand, we're forecasting 10% to 15% total annual volume growth in the medium term from distribution alone. We're prioritizing growth in key DMAs for Pacifico to expand off-premise points of distribution in key cities, particularly in the West and Midwest regions of the country, which will be supported by digital media to reach target legal drinking age Gen Z consumers. We'll also activate consumer and customer-specific national accounts retail programs, as well as steel marketing and sponsorship, to support targeted investment markets. Pacifico had the hottest draft volume trend in the category during the last 52 weeks, followed closely by Modelo. That trend, along with planned unique activations, positions Pacifico to continue to gain awareness with consumers. We've been increasingly focused on upping our game in the spirits-based RTD space with unique and compelling new brands. Last quarter, we announced a new agreement with the Coca-Cola Company for the U.S. market to create a new, state-of-line of spirit-based ready-to-drink cocktails using the well-loved and fast-growing fresca brand. Fresca mixed will debut this fall in vodka [inaudible] strips and tequila Paloma [inaudible]. In support of our collective fiscal 3 portfolio initiatives, we will continue to leverage our efficient sponsorship of UFC, the college football playoffs, as well as numerous NFL, NBA, and MLB teams. You'll see a significant increase and media investments to drive sustained awareness and consumer demand. Overall, we plan to recruit new drinkers through advertising, investments in digital media, and localized programming. In addition, our portfolio initiatives will be enabled by increasing adoption of our shopper-first shelf approach, which continues to drive results and gain traction. We completed 14,000 shopper-first shelf sets last year, our highest total to date. As you can see, our beer portfolio is well-positioned to capitalize unveiling category and consumer trends by leveraging our core brands' competitive advantages for existing and new platforms to deliver our medium-term net sales growth target of 7% to 9%. Now let's move on to our wine and spirits business. Despite the confluence of factors impacting this business in fiscal '22, including a major distributor transition, migration to SAP, inflationary headwinds, and COVID-related logistics and supply chain challenges, this business delivered strong organic net sales growth of 9% and solid gross margin improvement for the year. Marketplace performance for our hiring brands continued to outpace the overall U.S. wine and spirits category, primarily driven by Meiomi, Kim Crawford, and the Wine Company. And our increased focus on our higher-end price segments yielded benefits as our fine wine and craft spirits portfolio achieved double-digit net sales growth driven by the Prisoner Wine Company and High West. Our innovation efforts also produced excellent results with growth contributions coming from Meiomi cabernet sauvignon, Kim Crawford Illuminate Sauvignon Blanc which together both held the top two slots among new high-end products introduced over the last two years, as well as the Prisoner [inaudible] extensions, High West ready-to-serve cocktails, and Woodbridge's Buttery Chardonnay in three-liter box. Heading into fiscal '23, our strategic focus includes commitment to continued premiumization, margin expansion, accelerated growth in DTC channels, and continued growth in our international business. Our innovation strategy will be focused on prevailing consumer trends of premiumization, digital, betterment, convenience, sustainability, and enhanced flavor profiles. We have a strong innovation pipeline planned for the coming year, which includes the launch of SVEDKA Gin, Meiomi Red Blend, Kim Crawford key wine spirits, Unshackled Chardonnay, and Pinot noir and [inaudible] ready-to-serve cocktails. Today, we announced two small additions to our wine and spirits portfolio to complement our premiumization efforts in line with Constellation's ambition to be the No. 1 player in fine wine and among the top five in ultra-luxury and icon lines. We have acquired the highly acclaimed Obregon line brand [inaudible]. This demonstrates our commitment to building a strong omnichannel business that includes category leadership in DTC and three-tier e-commerce while building our fine wine portfolio with a diverse collection of best wines from top-line regions around the world. We also acquired the remaining portion of Austin Cocktails, which began in 2018 as Constellation Ventures focus on female founders. Austin Cocktails is a leader in the fast-growing premium RTD segment of the U.S. beverage alcohol market. It currently is distributed in 28 states and posted depletion growth of 135% in calendar '21 as RTD trends continue to rise to popularity among consumers. Overall, we expect fiscal '23 to be a dynamic year in our wine and spirits business. A tighter focus on higher-end brand strengthens the business and strategically positions it for future success. Before I wrap, I'd like to provide a few thoughts on our investment in Canopy Growth. We continue to believe that the cannabis market represents a significant long-term growth opportunity and we're encouraged by the work Canopy is doing to further sharpen its strategy, rightsize its operating expense structure and capital investments, and achieved profitability in Canada while strengthening its competitive positioning in the U.S. In their most recent quarterly results, Canopy maintained the No. 1 share position in premium flower products in Canada and drove record performance for its BioSteel and stores and beco product lines. We are encouraged by recent Canadian government changes to beverage equivalency regulations, allowing consumers to purchase cannabis beverages in greater quantities. And in the U.S., Canopy's THC strategy is anchored by strategic relationships with two profitable MSOs, Acreage and TerrAscend, both of which are positioned in high-growth northeastern markets. Canopy continues to progress their U.S. THC strategy by establishing a scalable footprint, best-in-class products, and national distribution networks required to unlock the U.S. market upon federal legalization. In closing, I once again want to thank our team, as well as our value distributors and retailers, for your efforts in delivering another strong year of performance, and we're just as excited about our prospects for growth in the year ahead. Our beer business, led by our core iconic brands and consumer-led innovation, is poised to continue extending its leadership position in the high end of the U.S. beer market. Our continued focus on premiumization in the wine and spirits business is producing results, and we have plans to further focus our wine and spirits portfolio toward the higher end in fiscal '23. We remain committed to our previously stated capital allocation strategy, and we remain on track to deliver our $5 billion commitment by the end of fiscal '23. And finally, I'd like to leave you with this. We operate in a very dynamic and seemingly ever-changing environment. But over the years, one thing has remained constant. [inaudible] recently came out with its annual rankings of CPG growth leaders, and Constellation was recognized for being one of the top performers yet again. In fact, Constellation has been recognized as an IRI growth leader more than any other CPG company in our peer set over the last 10 years. That's something we're extremely proud of, and we look forward to continuing to keep this momentum going into our new fiscal year. And with that thought, I would like to turn it over to Garth, who will review our financial results in '22 and our financial focus for '23. Garth? Garth Hankinson -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Bill, and good morning, everyone. Fiscal 2022 marked another year of solid financial performance and shareholder value creation despite a myriad of headwinds forming our fortitude and resiliency. Our strong operating results and powerful cash flow generation allowed us to return almost $2 billion in capital to shareholders for the year. Additionally, as Bill mentioned, this morning, we announced that we are entering into an accelerated share repurchase, or ASR, agreement to repurchase $500 million of shares during Q1 of fiscal 2023. Please note that the ASR agreement constitutes the $500 million share repurchase referenced in this morning's earnings release. Once we complete the ASR in Q1, we will be approximately 75% of the way toward achieving our goal of returning $5 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal 2023. More on fiscal 2023 in a minute, but first went to review full year fiscal 2022 performance in more detail, where I'll generally focus on comparable basis financial results. Starting with beer. Net sales increased 11%, landing in the upper end of our previous guided range driven by shipment growth of approximately 9% and favorable price, which, as expected, landed slightly above our typical 1% to 2% range. These tailwinds were partially offset by unfavorable sales mix, primarily driven by a shift in package types and the return of on-premise draft SKUs. Depletion growth for the year came in at nearly 9% driven by the continued strength of Modelo Especial and Corona Extra, as well as the strong return to growth in the on-premise channel. On-premise volume accounted for approximately 11% of the total beer depletions during the fiscal year and grew strong double digits versus last year. As a reminder, the on-premise accounted for approximately 15% of our beer depletion volume pre-COVID and was only 6% of our depletion volume in fiscal 2021 as a result of on-premise shutdowns and restrictions due to COVID-19. When adjusting for two extra selling days in the year, the beer business generated approximately 8% depletion growth. As previously guided, cases shift continue to exceed cases depleted during the fourth quarter, which resulted in distributor inventories returning to normal levels at fiscal year end. Moving on to beer margins. As expected, beer operating margin decreased 110 basis points versus prior year to 40%. Benefits from favorable pricing, marketing as a percent of net sales and mix were more than offset by unfavorable COGS. The increase in COGS was driven by several headwinds that included the following: first, the previously announced obsolescence charge of approximately $80 million due to excess inventory of our hard seltzer SKUs resulting from a slowdown in the overall category; second, increased brewery costs driven by incremental headcount, labor inflation in Mexico, and increased spend related to capacity expansion; third, increased material costs due to rising commodity prices and inflationary headwinds that, on average, landed in the mid- to high single-digit increase range, predominantly driven by wood pallets, cartons steel, corn, and aluminum. Please note that this range includes the impact of hedging where possible. And lastly, step-up in depreciation expense, largely due to the incremental five main hectoliters at Obregon completed in early fiscal 2022. These comp headwinds were partially offset by favorable fixed cost absorption driven by increased production levels in fiscal 2022 versus last year. On an absolute dollar basis, marketing investments increased versus prior year. However, due to favorable top-line leverage, marketing as a percent of net sales decreased 40 basis points to 9.2% versus prior year. Moving to wine and spirits. Net sales declined 19% as shipments declined approximately 34%. Excluding the impact of the wine experience divestitures, organic net sales increased 9% mainly driven by shipment growth of nearly 3%, favorable mix, increased pricing, and small tainted bulk wine sales related to the 2020 wildfires. Organic shipment growth was largely driven by Meiomi, Kim Crawford, and the Prisoner, partially offset by a decline for some of our key mainstream brands. Depletions declined approximately 6%, mainly driven by SVEDKA, Robert Mondavi Private Selection and Woodbridge. These declines were partially offset by the robust growth of our higher-end brands, led by the Prisoner Wine Company of 16%; made only in High West, up 13%; and Kim Crawford, up 9%. Shipment growth was ahead of depletion growth for the year, mostly reflecting impacts from our distributor transition. During the coming year, we expect to rightsize inventory levels in the business. Operating margin decreased 180 basis points to 22.7% as mix benefited from the divestiture and favorable price were more than offset by increased marketing and SG&A spend as a percent of net sales and increased costs. Higher costs were driven by increased freight and warehousing costs, partially offset by net favorable fixed cost absorption, lower break raw materials, and cost savings initiatives. Marketing and SG&A as a percent of net sales increased versus the prior year, largely due to a loss of top-line leverage, resulting from the divestitures. Now let's proceed with the rest of the P&L. Fiscal 2022 corporate expense came in slightly higher than our previous guidance, finishing at approximately $238 million up 4% versus last fiscal year. This increase was primarily driven by higher consulting T&E spend and increased depreciation. These headwinds were partially offset by a decrease in compensation and benefits and a favorable foreign currency impact. Interest expense for the year decreased 8% to approximately $356 million, primarily due to lower average borrowings, partially offset by higher-weighted average interest rates. Our full year comparable basis effective tax rate, excluding Canopy equity and earnings came in at 17.5% versus 18.2% last year, primarily driven by a higher level of stock-based compensation benefits. Effective tax rates on our four businesses came in lower than expected during Q4, driving tax rate favorability versus our previous guidance. Moving to fiscal 2022 free cash flow, which we define as net cash provided by operating activities less capex. We generated $1.7 billion of free cash flow, which reflects strong operating cash. capex totaled approximately $1 billion and was in line with our most recent guidance. This included approximately $850 million of capex for our Mexico beer operations expansion. Pivoting to our full year fiscal 2023 P&L and cash flow targets. For fiscal 2023, we expect comparable basis diluted EPS to be in the range of $11.20 to $11.50, which excludes Canopy equity and earnings. For fiscal 2023, the beer business is targeting net sales growth of 7% to 9%, reflecting 1 to 2 points of pricing benefit within our Mexican product portfolio, which is in line with our typical pricing strategy and operating income growth of 2% to 4%. This implies operating margin to approximately 38%. As previously discussed, the implied decline in operating margin is predominantly driven by gross margin compression as benefits from price and our cost savings agenda are expected to be more than offset by the following COGS headwinds. First, we are expecting elevated inflationary pressures to continue throughout fiscal 2023 and estimating inflation on the commodity spend component of raw and packaging materials to land, on average, in the high single-digit to low double-digit range, including the impact of hedging and [inaudible]. These significant inflationary pressures are expected across numerous cost components but largely driven by aluminum, cartons, wood pallets, and steel. Second, similar to fiscal 2022, we are expecting incremental brewing costs driven by labor inflation in Mexico is estimated to range between 5% and 6%, as well as incremental headcount and training expenses to support our continued capacity expansion initiatives. Third, as a result of these brewery expansion plans, we are estimating a step-up in depreciation expense as additional capacity is planned to come online throughout the fiscal year. For fiscal 2023, we are targeting total beer segment depreciation expense to approximate $295 million or an increase of approximately $45 million. And finally, we expect margin headwinds related to incremental logistics costs in fuel and freight rates for both rail and truck, which is expected to drive an increase in the low to high single-digit range. As previously stated, we expect to execute against our aggressive cost savings agenda to help partially offset these headwinds, along with expected favorable fixed cost absorption driven by increased production models. As it relates to beer marketing spend for fiscal 2023, we expect marketing as a percent of net sales to land in the 9% to 10% range. Shifting to wine and spirits. For fiscal 2023, the wine and spirits business is targeting net sales to decline 1% to 3%. While this range is outside our medium-term growth goal for the business, it is an anomaly driven by the significant overlap we have from our distributor transition, as well as revenues associated with sales of smoke-tainted bulk wine. Both are anticipated to be one time in nature, and thus, we do not expect them to be repeated in fiscal year 2023. Excluding these impacts, we expect an underlying wine and spirits business to return to its targeted goal of 2% to 4% net sales growth next fiscal year. On the bottom line, we expect operating income to increase in the 4% to 6% range. This implies operating margin to approximate 24.5%, which represents almost 200 basis points of margin expansion. This margin expansion reflects benefits from price, mix and cost-saving initiatives to help more than offset significant cost inflation headwinds mostly related to freight and packaging. Cost-saving initiatives include optimizing the Appalachian mix across our portfolio and decreasing the weight of our glass bottles, which also has positive environmental impacts. This is a good spot to update everyone on our wine and spirits operating margin expectations in the medium term. Since we provided original targets back in 2019, the operational environment has changed considerably. Inflationary pressures have got significantly worse, driving increased freight and warehousing costs in fiscal 2022 and are expected to continue well into fiscal 2023. Additionally, while we continue to remove stranded costs from the business, we strategically decided to reinvest more of these savings back into the areas of businesses that are driving growth. Specifically, in DTC, e-commerce, our fine wine and craft spirits portfolio, and consumer-led products that are fueled by category tailwinds. As such, we've updated our operating margin goal to reflect these impacts and now expect medium-term operating margins to migrate to a range of 28% to 29% and EBIT margins at approximately 30%, reflecting a leading margin structure for our industry. Before we move on to guidance for the rest of the P&L, I'd like to highlight the new additions to our wine spirit portfolio that Bill mentioned earlier. As part of the evolution to the high end, we acquired lingua franca, as well as the remaining interest in Austin Cocktails from our ventures portfolio, two businesses positioning categories with significant growth tailwinds behind it. From a finance perspective, these transactions collectively, along with My Favorite Neighbor, which was fully acquired in fiscal 2022 were almost entirely self-funded through the sale of one of our successful venture investments, which generated a significant return on investment. Other fiscal 2023 guidance assumptions include the following: corporate expenses to approximate $230 million, interest expense to be in the range of $350 million to $360 million, and a comparable tax rate, excluding Canopy equity earnings of approximately 20%. The increase in our tax rate is mainly driven by a lower level of anticipated stock-based compensation benefits versus fiscal 2022. Rounding up the P&L, noncontrolling interest is expected to approximate $40 million and weighted average diluted shares outstanding are targeted at approximately 198 million. This share count assumes we executed a $500 million of share repurchases in Q1. We plan to repurchase additional shares throughout the remainder of the fiscal year. However, we do not know the timing of cadence, and as such, these expected share repurchases have been excluded from our guidance assumptions. We will continue to update our outstanding shares accordingly when we report quarterly earnings throughout the fiscal year. Additionally, this EPS guidance range does not reflect a prolonged impact from the volatility associated with the ongoing headwinds we've been experiencing on fuel prices and other commodities as the sustained impact of the recent geopolitical events remains unclear. Thankfully, we have no employees who live or work in Russia or Ukraine, and we have minimal commercial disclosure to this part of the world. That said, our thoughts and prayers are with those being impacted by this growing humanitarian crisis, and we wish for a quick resolution to this conflict and return the peace in the region. Turning to cash flow. We expect fiscal 2023 free cash flow to be in the range of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion, which reflects operating cash flow in the range of $2.6 billion to $2.8 billion and capex of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion, including approximately $1.2 billion targeted for Mexico beer operations expansion. To wrap up, I'd like to reiterate that our capital allocation strategy remains unchanged. In fiscal 2022 alone, our strong operating results and powerful cash flow generation capabilities enabled us to return almost $2 billion in capital to shareholders as part of our overall goal of returning $5 billion by the end of our fiscal 2023. Our capital allocation priorities augment our organic growth strategy to enable strategic reinvestment where we see category tailwinds. We believe this strategy, combined with excellent execution and returns to shareholders, positions us to be a top-tier shareholder return generator for many years to come. With that, Bill and I are happy to take your questions.  