
OperatorGood day and welcome to the Mondelez International Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Mondelez management and the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Shep Dunlap, Vice President, Investor Relations for Mondelez. Please go ahead, sir.Shep Dunlap -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon and thanks for joining us. With me today are Dirk Van De Put, our Chairman and CEO; and Luca Zaramella, our CFO. Earlier today, we sent out our press release and presentation slides which are available on our website.During this call we'll make forward-looking statements about the company's performance. These statements are based on how we see things today. Actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the cautionary statements and risk factors contained in our 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings for more details on our forward-looking statements. As we discuss our results today, unless noted as reported, we'll be referencing our non-GAAP financial measures, which adjust for certain items included in our GAAP results. In addition, we provide our year-over-year growth on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted. We are also presenting revenue growth on a two-year CAGAR basis to provide better comparability, given the impact of COVID on 2020 results. You can find the comparable GAAP measures and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations within our earnings release and at the back of the slide presentation.In today's call. Dirk will provide a business and strategy update, then Luca will take you through our financial results and outlook. We will close with Q&A.With that, I'll turn the call over to Dirk.

 



Dirk Van De Put -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Shep, and thanks to everyone for joining the call today. Firstly, I want to acknowledge our colleagues, our suppliers and our customers around the world who continue to navigate through the pandemic, particularly in markets where COVID vaccines are not yet widely available.We continue to work hard to accelerate access to vaccines for our colleagues and sincerely appreciate everyone's efforts to maintain the supply and availability of our products. We had a strong first half, executing our strategy well, and leveraging our advantaged enablers to deliver against our growth drivers. This strong first half gives us the confidence to raise our full-year revenue growth outlook to 4% plus. We are seeing improving mobility trends in many places, helping to drive recovery in areas such as World Travel Retail and gum and candy that were negatively impacted last year. We also see continued strong demand for the categories and channels that experienced elevated demand last year due to COVID. Once again this quarter we have demonstrated that our strategy is working as it is driving a virtuous cycle that is consistently delivering a profitable volume-driven top-line and bottom-line growth as well as good returns to our shareholders.We are leveraging our revenue growth management capability, which is particularly important in this inflationary environment to generate fuel for continue with the investment in our brands and capabilities. And we continue to reshape our portfolio to further increase our focus on snacking as well as to accelerate our long-term growth rates. To this end, we announced in Q2 an agreement to acquire Chipita, which I will speak more about later. After this strong first half of the year and strong previous years, I remain even more confident that we have the right strategy and are taking the right actions to deliver continued and accelerated growth.

 



Turning to slide 5 and the headlines of our financial performance, we grew revenue by 6.2% in the quarter and 5% for the half, lapping 3.7% growth in the first half of 2020. Despite cost inflation, which continues to be affected in our sector, we grew gross profit faster than revenue. We achieved this through volume leverage, pricing actions, and continued cost discipline. This profitable growth funded another quarter of double-digit increase in working media spend. Our A&C investments combined with our advantaged portfolio of brands and excellent execution continue to deliver strong share performance. On a two-year cumulative basis, we are gaining or holding share across 75% of our revenue year-to-date.And in terms of cash generation and capital return, we increased our free cash flow by $300 million versus half one of last year and returned $2.4 billion of capital to shareholders, an increase of $0.9 billion versus half one 2020. Adding the Q2 revenue growth to our track record of performance since launching our strategy in late 2018, you can see on slide 6 that we are now averaging a 4% quarterly growth rate. We achieved this by pivoting from a cost and percentage margin focus to a volume-led growth and profit dollar focus by increasing clarity and accountability in the company through a simplified local first commercial model where decisions are made closer to the consumer by stepping up the investment levels in our brands and capabilities and by better aligning our incentives to our strategy to stimulate growth driving behaviors and a winning culture.Driving sustained growth requires remaining close to the consumer and being informed by consumer insights, which I will discuss on slide 7. As we entered the second half, consumer behavior around the world is still shaped by COVID where gradual shifts in behavior continue to drive strong demand for our snacks. Globally we are some distance away from reaching a new normal. And the recovery is uneven, largely dependent on availability and adoption of vaccines. Comfort and mental wellbeing remain as important as they have been throughout this pandemic. And that is leading consumers to reach for the snack brands they know and love. Variety, convenience, value, and nutrition have returned as decision factors as countries begin to reopen. Mobility is increasing as restrictions ease but at-home consumption remains elevated and it appears that higher levels of working from home and shopping online are here to stay.More time at home, the desire for trusted and comforting brands and the return of impulse and on the go consumption are driving sustained growth in our core categories. Year-to-date, the biscuit category has a two-year average yearly growth rate of nearly 4%, and chocolate is growing almost 6%. Solidly growing core categories are the first of a long runway of growth opportunities that we have illustrated on slide 8. The runway is long and we are realizing these opportunities by leveraging our strong enablers such as increased brand investment, higher quality, and purpose-led marketing and pricing ability. As a consequence, this quarter, we continue to make progress against our key growth drivers. These include driving category growth and share gains in our core categories through impactful partnerships like the Premier League with Cadbury in the UK, the US Olympic seen with Oreo and the NBA with Trident, also expanding our presence in key channels like digital commerce, which grew 14% this quarter on a reported basis, after close to triple-digit growth last year.We are also expanding our presence in emerging markets, where we continue to gain distribution in key countries like China and India with another 60,000, and 20,000 stores added this quarter. We are increasing our exposure to high-growth segments where we are underrepresented. For example, premium, where we have recently integrated Tate's onto our US DSD system and are seeing the benefits through accelerated strong double-digit growth this year. And finally, we are also increasing our foothold in adjacent categories like cakes and pastries where we are now realizing the potential of acquisitions like give and go in North America. We are also launching innovations like Oreo muffins.Moving to slide 9, let me speak for a minute about the attractiveness of the packaged cakes and pastries category and our expansion into it. This is a 65 billion category, growing at or above the rate of our core snacks categories. It also has attractive profitability. Both cakes and pastries typically have a higher net revenue per kilogram than cookies. It is a close adjacency to our core biscuit capabilities and is a fragmented category which provides a clear opportunity for a company with the right brands and capabilities to gain a leadership position. The number one and number 2 two players have a market share below 10% and following the acquisition of Chipita, we will be the number three player.And finally, we believe we can add value and premiumize the category by leveraging our brands and you can see a few examples of that on the slide. Starting with LU in Europe, the number one cookie brand in France, which is now building its presence in the cakes and pastries aisles, that includes the well-beloved bird and bird biscuit reimagined as a soft cake, and recently the brand is expanding even further into waffles in the highly incremental pastries space.On Oreo, we have recently expanded from our core cookies into cupcakes, donuts, and more by leveraging our give-and-go platform in North America, Our products bring the Oreo taste and quality. And finally, Milka, the number one chocolate brand in France, Germany and Austria, which we initially took into the cookie aisle through our chocobakery innovation. Milka has now expanded into soft cakes like brownies and will soon expand into [indecipherable] through the acquisition and you can imagine, we will do the same with Cadbury in the countries where Cadbury is our main chocolate brands. We firmly believe that a leadership position in the cakes and pastries category can contribute to an accelerated growth rate for our company and between our core brands and recent acquisitions, we have the tools to succeed.Now, let's dive a little deeper on Chipita on slide 10. We are very excited about acquiring this attractive portfolio which is led by the 7 days brands. It is a 600 million business growing high single-digit and skewed toward European emerging markets with strong potential to expand its presence in many other geographies. The portfolio is predominantly prepackaged croissants, which give us greater exposure to the breakfast or pre-lunch consumption occasion. We have clear revenue synergies with Chipita including distribution and co-branding and we believe there is other attractive innovation in the pipeline. We also expect to realize efficiency opportunities. This will be our seventh acquisition since 2018, which will combine to add $1.5 billion of revenue to our business. We also sold down a further 1 billion of KDP stock in Q2, which will part fund the Chipita acquisition. We look forward to welcoming Chipita on board and believe this business can be a strong growth engine.In conclusion, as you can see from our first-half performance, executing our strategy continues to deliver strong results. I am confident that we are well-positioned to deliver consistent and profitable growth for years to come.With that, I will hand over to Luca for more details on our financial performance.Luca Zaramella -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Dirk, and good afternoon. Our second-quarter performance was strong across the board. We delivered robust top-line growth as the gross profit dollar growth that allows reinvestment in our brands and attractive free cash flow.Revenue for the quarter increased by 6.2%. Growth was broad-based and volume-led. Pricing, which was favorable across all regions, was also a key contributor. Emerging market performance was strong, growing more than 16%, for the quarter, and more than 5% on a two-year basis, despite India being affected at the beginning of the quarter by COVID-related lockdowns. In India, the situation improved in June, and growth trends have already been restored in line with what we saw in quarter one. Of note, these emerging market results include double-digit growth in Brazil, India, Russia, and Mexico and high single-digit growth in China. We remain encouraged by the resiliency and underlying strength of our emerging market, while we continue to invest behind attractive growth opportunities for the long term. Developed markets also performed well with robust consumption trends continuing. These markets grew 1.3% during Q2 coming off elevated demand in 2020. The two-year average growth for Q2 was nearly 3% and more than 3% for half one.Turning to slide 13 and portfolio performance, biscuits grew 2.8% in Q2 and 6% on a two-year average. Brazil, Russia, and Mexico posted double-digit growth while Germany grew high single digits in this category. Our North America business declined, low single digits, lapping double-digit growth in 2020. Chocolate grew more than 12% for the quarter with a two-year average of 5.9%. India, Brazil, Germany, and Russia all posted strong results, despite some restrictions in India. Cadbury Milka, Lacta, and Toblerone all grew significantly during the quarter. Toblerone's results reflect growth from improving mobility trends in World Travel Retail, albeit this business is only at around 40% of 2019 levels. Gum and candy posted strong double-digit growth, resulting from improving mobility trends and lapping the big COVID restrictions in 2020. This business grew 28% during the quarter but still declined over 7% on a two-year basis. We expect growth to be better for the second half of the year as mobility generally improves, yet we are still cautious about gum category dynamics. That is still at 80% of the 2019 levels and our full year outlook does not imply a full recovery to pre-COVID.Now, I'll cover our market share performance on slide 14. We continue to see good share performance. Given the unique impact of COVID on results, last quarter we switched to a 2-year cumulative for percentage of revenue, gaining or holding share, as we feel it better depicts how we are truly performing. On a 2-year cumulative basis as of June, we have had or gained shares in 75% of market and category combinations. Biscuits and chocolate, continue to be the primary drivers of this performance as they had or gained in 80% of our revenue base. Notable share gainers on a two-year basis include the US, China, Russia, and Brazil biscuit, and Germany, Russia, and South Africa chocolate. Gum and candy held or gained in 50%, improving since the last quarter, primarily due to the US candy performance.Now, let's review our profitability on slide 15. Overall profitability was strong in the second quarter and year-to-date, gross profit grew faster than revenue, increasing more than 7% due to strong volume leverage, productivity, line pricing, and revenue growth management initiatives that helped to offset inflation in commodities, logistics, and labor. As we said many times, inflation in commodity costs are higher than we originally anticipated at the start of 2021, but we continue to believe that they are manageable and we are holding to our original stands as far as investments are concerned. Having said that, we are managing gross profit dollars for the year and there might be some pressure points in the second half. In addition, our goal is to end 2022 with a sound profitability level that will enable higher investment in 2022. Operating income dollars also increased by more than 7%.Moving to regional results on slide 16, Europe revenue grew 5.4% in the quarter and 2% on a two-year basis, we go I dollars or plus 15%. North America declined slightly at minus 0.3% in the quarter with a two-year average growth of 5.2%. Operating income declined minus 7.2% in the quarter because of volume and mixed dynamics as well as some cost inflation that was more pronounced in this region than others. EMEA posted growth of plus 7% and a two-year average of 1.8%, which includes the peak COVID lockdowns in Q2 of last year. India delivered another quarter of exceptional growth despite the challenging start related to lock-downs, growing strong double digits. India grew on a two-year average mid-single-digit.EMEA operating income dollars grew more than 7% in the quarter due to volume leverage, as well as cost mitigation efforts with substantial brand and working media investment increases. Latin America grew 33.7% in Q2 and 8.9% on a two-year average aided by Brazil that grew by double-digit, while dollar in Latin America grew significantly over previous year due to top-line growth and mix as gum is on a recovery path.Now, turning to EPS on slide 17. Q2 EPS increased 1.6% at constant currency, driven mostly by operating gains which were partially offset by the lapping of a one-time tax benefit in previous-year quarter. First half EPS increased 8.6% at constant currency, primarily due to operating gains and despite lapping a one-time tax impact last year.Moving to cash flow and capital return on slide 18. We delivered free cash flow of $700 million in the second quarter, bringing us to $1.4 billion for the first half. We also repurchased approximately 1.5 billion in shares in the first half at attractive prices. Dividend growth remains an important part of our capital allocation approach, and to that hand, we announced another increase of 11% to our cash dividends today. This represents an increase of almost 85% over the past 5 years.Moving to our outlook on Slide 20, as a result of first-half trends, continued category durability, and healthy demand trends in both emerging and developed markets, we are increasing our full-year net revenue growth to plus 4% plus. With the first half at plus 5%, the implied growth rate for the half two is at least 3%. We remain prudent in the way we plan the business whether it relates to channels such as World Travel Retail and categories like gum, which are beginning to benefit from an improvement in mobility. We are also mindful that there is still a significant degree of volatility on a global basis as many countries find themselves in different stages as it relates to vaccines rollout, COVID transmission, and restrictions.In terms of EPS, we continue to expect high single-digit growth for the full year. We have not factored in the full benefit of the top line additional growth on EBIT, as we will continue to reinvest the volume-driven upside back in the business to sustain our share performance. We also continue to expect free cash flow generation of $3 billion plus for the year as some additional cost related taxes are now factored into our outlook. Forex translation is now expected to positively impact our reported revenue by approximately 2 percentage points and EPS by $0.09 on the year based on current market rate. As said our updated outlook is based on current conditions and does not factor in a material degradation in the operating environment that could be triggered by a significant worsening of COVID. We also expect to continue executing against our plans in revenue growth management including pricing and simplification in order to offset some of the inflationary costs related to commodities, logistics, and labor that we expect to be incrementally higher in the second half of the year. As already said, we want to enter 2022 with strong margins that will allow the combination of the virtual cycle and high investment level.To close, we remain focused on consistently executing against our strategy. This means continued investment in our brands, driving core growth, expanding in underserved channels, doubling down on high-growth segments, and capturing new opportunities in closing adjacencies like cakes and pastries and bars.With that, let's open it up for Q&A.