
OperatorWelcome to Signature Bank's 2021 Third Quarter Results Conference Call. Hosting the call today from Signature Bank are Joe DePaolo, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Eric Howell, Senior Executive, Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for your questions following the presentation. [Operator Instructions]It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Joe DePaolo, President and Chief Executive Officer, you may begin.Joseph J. DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you Anna. Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Signature Bank 2021 third quarter results conference call. Before I begin my formal remarks, Susan Lewis will read the forward-looking disclaimer. Please go ahead, Susan.Susan Turkell Lewis -- Media ContactThank you, Joe. This conference call and oral statements made from time to time by our representatives contain forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should not place undue reliance on those statements because they are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and may be beyond our control. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our expectations regarding future results, interest rates and the interest rate environment, loan and deposit growth, loan performance, operations, new private client team hires, new office openings, business strategy and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on each of the foregoing and on our business overall. Forward-looking statements often include words such as may, believe, expect, anticipate, intend, potential, opportunity, could, project, seek, target, goal, should, will, would, plan, estimate, or other similar expressions. As you consider forward-looking statements, you should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and can change as result of many possible events or factors, not all of which are known to us or in our control. These factors include those described in our quarterly and annual reports filed with the FDIC, which you should review carefully for further information. You should keep in mind that any forward-looking statements made by Signature Bank speak only as of the date on which they were made.Now I'd like to turn the call back to Joe.

 



Joseph J. DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Susan. I would provide some overview into the quarterly results and then my colleague Eric Howell, our Chief Operating Officer will review the Bank's financial performance in greater detail. Eric and I will address your questions at the end of our remarks.Signature Bank's dramatic growth, which surpassed the milestone of $100 billion in assets was driven by the collective success of our legacy banking teams in New York, our blockchain driven -- our blockchain-based payments platform Signet and the many low-risk franchises, which now comprise our organization. The deposit growth of $10 billion in the third quarter continued to be widespread with notable contributions from our digital asset banking team including growth on the Signet platform, the specialized mortgage banking solutions team and the New York legacy banking teams. Our core growth, our core loan growth was driven by our Fund Banking Division, which grew a record $5 billion in outstandings. Although some of these businesses have only recently come to fruition, our approach remains consistent since the day we opened our doors. We've always adhered to our client-centric single point of contact model, which inevitably attracts top bankers from across the industry, as well as their clients.Now let's take a look at earnings. Pre-tax pre-provision earnings for the 2021 third quarter were a record $331 million, an increase of $78.6 million or 31% compared with $252.4 million for 2020 third quarter. Net income for the 2021 third quarter increased $102.9 million or 74.2% to record a $241.4 million or $3.88 diluted earnings per share compared with $138.6 million or $2.62 diluted earnings per share for last year. The increase in income was predominantly driven by substantial asset growth of $44.1 billion over the last 12 months as well as the decrease in the provision for credit losses, which was substantially impacted by COVID-19 in the third quarter of 2020.

 



Looking at deposits. Deposits increased $10 billion or 11.7% to $95.6 billion this quarter, while average deposits also grew $10 billion. This quarter's growth was driven by the digital asset banking team, which grew deposits $5.1 billion including $2.7 billion of growth on the Signet platform. Additionally, the specialized Mortgage Banking Solutions team grew $2.3 billion. Our Venture Banking Group increased $200 million. The West Coast banking teams grew $235 million, and our New York banking teams grew $1.9 billion. This includes 8 New York teams that exceeding $100 million in growth. Since the end of the 2020 third quarter, deposits increased a remarkable $41.2 billion or 76% and average deposits increased $33.4 billion, furthering the reduction in our loan to deposit ratio which now stands at 61% down from 85% just one year ago.During the quarter non-interest bearing deposits increased $5.7 billion, that's worth saying twice, non-interest bearing deposits increased $5.7 billion to $34.4 billion, which represents a high 36% of total deposits. This tremendous growth in DDA can largely be attributable to the adoption of our Signet platform, which as I stated earlier grew to -- grew by $2.7 billion this quarter. A substantial organic deposit growth led to an increase of $44.1 billion or 69.2% in total assets since the third quarter of last year. That's the equivalent of acquiring the top 50 U.S. bank, but we did it completely organically. We believe this is by far the most efficient use of capital.Now let's take a look at our lending business. Core loans or loans excluding PPP during the 2021 third quarter increased a record $5 billion or 9.6% to $57.2 billion. For the prior 12 months core loans grew $13 billion or 29.4%. The increase in loans this quarter was again driven primarily by the Fund Banking capital call facilities. Our existing teams are well-positioned to capitalize on opportunities. We also welcome our corporate mortgage finance business, warehouse mortgaging and our SBA originations platform, which will help to further our growth and diversification.Now turning to credit quality. Our portfolio continues to perform well. Let me first point out, the Bank's COVID-19 related non-payment modifications continue to trend positively. As of year-end 2020, they were $1.3 billion. At April 15, they were $983 million. At July 15 they were $309 million, and as of October 10, they are now at $254 billion. So from the end of 2020, when it was $1.3 billion, we're now down to $254 million or 43 basis points of total loans. That's a non-payment modification. Non-accrual loans of $165.4 million or 28 basis points of total loans compares with $136.1 million or 25 basis points for the 2021 second quarter, well within our expectations. Our 30 day to 89 day past due loans are well within our normal range of $98.1 million. Our 90 day plus past due loans were $81.2 million. However, there were two loans that were renewals that was delayed and have subsequently closed. Adjusting for this, our 90 day plus past dues would have been within a normal range of 7.0 -- at $7.9 million.Net charge-offs for the quarter of -- net charge-offs for the 2021 third quarter was $17.3 million or 12 basis points of average loans compared with $15.3 million for the 2021 second quarter, again well within our expectation. The provision for credit losses in 2021 third quarter decreased to $4 million compared with $8.2 million for the 2021 second quarter. This support the Bank's allowance for credit losses 85 basis points and the coverage ratio continues to stand at a healthy 303%. I would like to point out that excluding very well secured Fund Banking core -- capital call facility and government guaranteed PPP loans, the allowance for credit losses will be much higher at 136 basis points.Now, onto the expanding team front, where we continue to realize success. In the 2021 third quarter, the Bank on-boarded one large private client banking team in New York. This brings the team total hires to 8 for the year, 2 in New York, 4 in the West Coast as well as the Corporate Mortgage Finance team and the SBA originations team.At this point in the call, I'll turn it over to Eric, and he will review the quarter's financial results in greater detail.Eric R. Howell -- Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Joe, and good morning everyone. I'll start by reviewing net interest income and margin. With our emphasis on growing net interest income, for the third quarter, it reached $480.9 million, an increase of $23.7 million or 5.2% from the 2021 second quarter, an increase of $220.5 million or 20% from the 2020 third quarter. Net interest margin declined 14 basis points to 1.88% compared with 2.02% for the 2021 second quarter. The decrease was due to massive excess cash balances from significant deposit flows, which impacted margin by 59 basis points. Again our focus is on net interest income growth.Let's look at asset yields and funding costs for a moment. Interest earning asset yields for the 2021 third quarter decreased 19 basis points from the linked-quarter to 2.18%. The decrease in overall asset yields was again driven by the massive excess average cash balances, which grew $5.4 billion to $29.2 billion during the quarter. Yields on the securities portfolio decreased 23 basis points linked quarter to 1.49% due to lower reinvestment rates as well as the Bank investing in floating rate securities. Additionally our portfolio duration increased to 3.01 years, which was due to increase in rates at the end of the quarter. We anticipated that it was going to be a better environment for investing in securities, and fortunately interest rates were lower for most of the quarter. However, we were opportunistic throughout the quarter as we saw limited windows in which to invest, and therefore we did increase the securities portfolio by $2.2 billion, which includes $1 billion in purchases that settled literally on the last day of the quarter.And turning to our loan portfolio. Yields on average commercial loans and commercial mortgages decreased 13 basis points to 3.45% compared with the 2021 second quarter. Excluding prepayment penalties from both quarters, yields decreased by 10 basis points. Now looking at liabilities, our overall deposit cost this quarter decreased 5 basis points to 22 basis points due to the low interest rate environment as we gradually lower our relationship based deposit rates. We anticipate this downward trend to continue in the coming quarters, albeit at a slower pace. During the quarter average borrowing balances decreased by $146 million and the cost of borrowings decreased 3 basis points to 2.8%. The overall cost of funds for the quarter decreased 6 basis points to 32 basis points, driven by the reduction in deposit costs. And I'd like to point out the dramatic shift in our interest rate risk profile where our balance sheet has moved to significantly asset sensitive from mildly liability sensitive over the last several years. The Bank's focus on growing floating-rate loans, which now comprise 45% up from 10% of our loan portfolio, coupled with our core deposit funding base, makes us extremely well-positioned to take advantage of a rising rate environment.And now on to non-interest income and expense. With our plan to grow non-interest income, we achieved growth of $7.2 million or 30% to $31.4 million when compared with the 2020 third quarter. The increase is mostly due to rise in fees and service charges, which was driven by an increase in both unused commitment fees and treasury management fees. Non-interest expense for the 2021 third quarter was $181.2 million versus $160.6 million for the same period a year ago. The $20.7 million or 12.9% increase was principally due to the addition of new private client banking teams and operational support to meet the Bank's growing needs. And despite our significant team hiring and margin compression from substantial cash balances, the Bank continues to gain operating leverage, and as a result, our efficiency ratio improved to 35.4% for the 2021 third quarter versus 38.9% for the comparable period last year.And now quickly, turning to taxes. This quarter we benefited from multiple one-time tax items, which totaled $7.4 million and included $4.3 million in solar tax credits. This lowered our tax rate to 26.2% for the quarter. Excluding these benefits, the effective tax rate for the quarter would have been 28.5%. And turning to capital, the Bank raised 655 million of common equity through a public offering during the quarter. As a result all capital ratios strengthened and remained well in excess of regulatory requirements and augment the relatively low risk profile of the balance sheet, as evidenced by common equity Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 10.49% and total risk-based ratio of 12.96% as of the 2021 third quarter.And now I'll turn the call back to Joe. Thank you.Joseph J. DePaolo -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks Eric. The collective strength of our franchise let to yet another quarter of strong deposit growth. Record core loan growth, record pre-tax pre-provision earning and record net income. Bottom-line, we delivered another strong quarter. We are well-positioned for the future given the robust deposit growth from across the board that has led to a significant level of excess cash on our balance sheet. We will continue to prudently put the cash to use in our securities portfolio as well as our loan portfolio through both our new and existing lending businesses. Our steadfast deployment will ultimately drive earnings higher for our shareholders. Our approach to organic growth coupled with our industry-leading efficiency continues to be the best method for capital deployment. Signature Bank's track-record confirms that investing in people is paramount and the optimal path is to avoid all of the cultural and organizational disruptions that stem from M&A, which are often under-estimated.Looking ahead, we will continue to invest in our colleagues whose dedication has brought us to this next chapter. It has always been and will continue to be their efforts that culminate into the thriving institution that has become Signature Bank. We look forward to a bright future ahead. Now we are happy to answer any questions you might have. But before I turn --before I turn the call over to Anna, the operator, I just want to encourage everyone please get vaccinated.Now I'll turn it over Anna. Thank you.