  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Valero's second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Homer Bhullar, vice president, investor relations and finance. Thank you, sir. Please go ahead.Homer Bhullar -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Finance Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Valero Energy Corporation's second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. With me today are Joe Gorder, our chairman and CEO; and Lane Riggs, our president and COO; Jason Fraser, our executive vice president and CFO; Gary Simmons, our executive vice president and chief commercial officer; and several other members of Valero's senior management team. If you have not received the earnings release and would like a copy, you can find one on our website at investorvalero.com. Also attached to the earnings release are tables that provide additional financial information on our business segments. If you have any questions after reviewing these tables, please feel free to contact our investor relations team after the call. I would now like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statement disclaimer contained in the press release. In summary, it says that statements in the press release and on this conference call that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions under federal securities laws. There are many factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, including those we've described in our filings with the SEC.Now I'll turn the call over to Joe for opening remarks. Joe Gorder -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Homer, and good morning, everyone. Our system's flexibility and the team's relentless focus on optimization in a week, but, otherwise, improving margin environment, enabled us to deliver positive earnings in the second quarter. More importantly, cash provided by operating activities more than covered our cash used in investing and financing activities for the quarter, even without the cash benefits from our 2020 income tax refund and the proceeds from the sale of a portion of our interest in the Pasadena terminal. There was a significant increase in mobility in the second quarter, driving higher demand for refined products, particularly in the U.S. In fact, we're seeing demand for gasoline and diesel in excess of prepandemic levels in our U.S. Gulf Coast and Mid-Continent regions. Jet demand continues to ramp up as well and is around 80% of 2019's level. We responded with higher refinery utilization to match product demand in our system. In addition, product exports have been picking up, particularly to Latin America with the easing of lockdowns in the region. We exported 410,000 barrels per day of products from our system in June, which is the highest volume since 2018. Our renewable diesel segment continues to perform exceptionally well and once again set records for renewable diesel margin and sales volumes. Highlighting Diamond Green Diesel's ability to process a wide range of discounted feedstocks and Valero's operational and technical expertise. Our ethanol segment also performed well and provided solid operating income in the second quarter as demand for ethanol increased along with higher gasoline production. Carbon sequestration project with BlackRock and Navigator is moving ahead and has garnered strong interest from additional parties in the binding open season. Valero is expected to be the anchor shipper with eight ethanol plants connected to this system. This project serves to help achieve our goal to lower the carbon intensity of our products, while providing solid economic returns. Our Diamond Green Diesel 2 project at St. Charles remains on budget and is scheduled to be operational in the middle of the fourth quarter of this year. This expansion project is expected to increase renewable diesel production capacity by 400 million gallons per year, bringing the total capacity at St. Charles to 690 million gallons per year of renewable diesel and 30 million gallons per year of renewable naphtha. And our Diamond Green Diesel 3 project at Port Arthur is also progressing well and is now expected to be operational in the first half of 2023. With the completion of this 470 million gallons per year plant, DGD's total annual capacity is expected to be 1.2 billion gallons of renewable diesel and 50 million gallons of renewable naphtha. Our refinery optimization projects remain on track with the Pembroke Cogen project expected to be completed in the third quarter of this year, and the Port Arthur Coker project expected to be completed in 2023. Looking ahead, we have a favorable outlook for refining margins, as product demand continues to improve with increasing global vaccinations and mobility. In addition, there has been significant refinery capacity rationalization in the U.S. in the last couple of years, and we expect further closures of uncompetitive refineries, particularly in Europe. We believe that product demand recovery, coupled with significant refinery rationalization should be supportive of strong refining margins. We also expect to see wider medium and heavy crude oil differentials as OPEC+ increases crude supply, which should further provide support to refining margins. And as low-carbon fuel policies continue to expand globally, we remain well positioned. With the current projects in progress, we expect to quadruple our renewable diesel production in the next couple of years. In addition, we continue to explore and develop opportunities in carbon sequestration, sustainable aviation fuel, renewable hydrogen, and other innovative projects to strengthen our long-term competitive advantage. So with that, Homer, I'll hand the call back to you.Homer Bhullar -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Finance Thanks, Joe. Before I provide our second-quarter financial results summary, I'm pleased to inform you that we recently published an updated stewardship and responsibility report which now includes our sustainability accounting standards or SASB disclosures. In addition to being on track to achieve our previously announced target to reduce and offset 63% of our global refining greenhouse gas emissions by 2025 through investments in board-approved projects, the report includes a new target to reduce and offset 100% of our global refining greenhouse gas emissions by 2035. These targets are consistent with our strategy as we continue to innovate and leverage our global liquid fuels platform to expand our long-term competitive advantage with investments in economic low-carbon projects. And now turning to our quarterly summary. Net income attributable to Valero stockholders was 162 million or $0.39 per share for the second quarter of 2021 compared to 1.3 billion or $3.07 per share for the second quarter of 2020. Second-quarter 2021 adjusted net income attributable to Valero stockholders was 197 million or $0.48 per share compared to an adjusted net loss of 504 million or $1.25 per share for the second quarter of 2020. For reconciliations to adjusted amounts, please refer to the financial tables that accompany the earnings release. The refining segment reported 349 million of operating income for the second quarter of 2021 compared to 1.8 billion for the second quarter of 2020. Second-quarter 2021 adjusted operating income for the refining segment was 361 million compared to an adjusted operating loss of 383 million for the second quarter of 2020. Refining throughput volumes in the second quarter of 2021 averaged 2.8 million barrels per day, which was 514,000 barrels per day higher than the second quarter of 2020. Throughput capacity utilization was 90% in the second quarter of 2021. Refining cash operating expenses of $4.13 per barrel were $0.26 per barrel lower than the second quarter of 2020, primarily due to higher throughput in the second quarter of 2021. The renewable diesel segment operating income was 248 million for the second quarter of 2021 compared to 129 million for the second quarter of 2020. Renewable diesel sales volumes averaged 923,000 gallons per day in the second quarter of 2021, which was 128,000 gallons per day higher than the second quarter of 2020. The segment set another record for operating income and sales volumes. The ethanol segment reported operating income of 99 million for the second quarter of 2021 compared to 91 million for the second quarter of 2020. The second-quarter 2020 adjusted operating loss was 20 million. Ethanol production volumes averaged 4.2 million gallons per day in the second quarter of 2021, which was 1.9 million gallons per day higher than the second quarter of 2020. For the second quarter of 2021, G&A expenses were 176 million and net interest expense was 150 million. Depreciation and amortization expense was 588 million, and income tax expense was 169 million for the second quarter of 2021. The effective tax rate was 37%, which was higher than our second quarter of 2020, primarily due to the remeasurement of our deferred tax liabilities, primarily as a result of an increase in the U.K. statutory tax rate that will be effective in 2023. Net cash provided by operating activities was 2 billion in the second quarter of 2021. Excluding the favorable impact from the change in working capital of 1.1 billion and our joint venture partner's 50% share of Diamond Green Diesel's net cash provided by operating activities, excluding changes in DGD's working capital, adjusted net cash provided by operating activities was 809 million. With regard to investing activities, we made 548 million of total capital investments in the second quarter of 2021, of which 252 million was for sustaining the business, including costs for turnarounds, catalysts, and regulatory compliance and 296 million was for growing the business. Excluding capital investments attributable to our partner's 50% share of Diamond Green Diesel and those related to other variable interest entities, capital investments attributable to Valero were 417 million in the second quarter of 2021. Moving to financing activities. We returned 401 million to our stockholders in the second quarter of 2021 through our dividend, resulting in a payout ratio of 50% of adjusted net cash provided by the operating activities for the quarter. Earlier this month, our board of directors also approved a regular quarterly dividend of $0.98 per share payable in the third quarter. And as Joe noted, we were able to cover all of our investing and financing activities, which includes our dividend and capital investments in the second quarter with cash provided by operating activities even without the benefit from the cash tax refund and the proceeds from the sale of a portion of our interest in the Pasadena terminal. With respect to our balance sheet at quarter end, total debt and finance lease obligations were 14.7 billion and cash and cash equivalents were 3.6 billion. The debt-to-capitalization ratio, net of cash and cash equivalents was 37%. At the end of June, we had 5 billion of available liquidity, excluding cash. Turning to guidance. We expect capital investments attributable to Valero for 2021 to be approximately 2 billion, which includes expenditures for turnarounds, catalysts, and joint venture investments. About 60% of our capital investments is allocated to sustaining the business and 40% to growth. And over half of our growth capital in 2021 is allocated to expanding our renewable diesel business. For modeling our third-quarter operations, we expect refining throughput volumes to fall within the following ranges: Gulf Coast at 1.6 million to 1.65 million barrels per day, Mid-Continent at 435 to 455,000 barrels per day, West Coast at 250 to 270,000 barrels per day, and North Atlantic at 450 to 470,000 barrels per day. We expect refining cash operating expenses in the third quarter to be approximately $4.45 per barrel. With respect to the renewable diesel segment, with the anticipated start-up of DGD 2 in the middle of the fourth quarter, we expect sales volumes to average 1 million gallons per day in 2021. Operating expenses in 2021 should be $0.50 per gallon, which includes $0.15 per gallon for noncash costs such as depreciation and amortization. Our ethanol segment is expected to produce 3.7 million gallons per day in the third quarter. Operating expenses should average $0.43 per gallon, which includes $0.06 per gallon for noncash costs such as depreciation and amortization. For the third quarter, net interest expense should be about 150 million and total depreciation and amortization expense should be approximately 590 million. For 2021, we still expect G&A expenses, excluding corporate depreciation, to be approximately 850 million, and the annual effective tax rate should approximate the U.S. statutory rate. That concludes our opening remarks. [Operator instructions] 