  OperatorWelcome to the Johnson Controls second quarter 2022 earnings call. [Operator instructions] This conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time. I will now turn the call over to Ryan Edelman, vice president, investor relations.Ryan Edelman -- Vice President, Investor Relations Good morning, and thank you for joining our conference call to discuss Johnson Controls' second quarter fiscal 2022 results. Press release and all related tables issued earlier this morning as well as the conference call slide presentation can be found on the investor relations portion of our website at johnsoncontrols.com. Joining me on the call today are Johnson Controls' chairman and chief executive officer, George Oliver; and our chief financial officer, Olivier Leonetti. As a reminder, before we begin, during the course of today's call, we'll be providing certain forward-looking information.

 



 We ask that you review today's press release and read through the forward-looking cautionary informational statements that we've included there. In addition, we will use certain non-GAAP measures in our discussions, and we ask that you read through the sections of our press release that address the use of these items. In discussing our results during the call, references to adjusted earnings per share, EBITA and EBIT exclude restructuring as well as other special items. These metrics, together with organic sales and free cash flow, are non-GAAP measures and are reconciled in the schedules attached to our press release and in the appendix to the presentation posted on our website.Additionally, all comparisons to the prior year are on a continuing ops basis. With that, I will turn the call over to George. George Oliver -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Ryan, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on the call today. I'm going to get started with a brief overview on Slide 3. Our results in the second quarter reflect solid top-line execution as we delivered strong sales, orders, and backlog growth in line with our expectations and at the high end of the guidance we provided.

 



 Demand for digitally enabled equipment and services that solve for sustainability and energy efficiency remains robust. And our sales teams are doing an outstanding job capitalizing on that demand. The reinvestments we have made to develop industry-leading products and solutions are delivering results. Digitization is at the center of our strategic vision for the company, and we continue to advance those strategies every day. OpenBlue is accelerating the digital enablement of our solutions, allowing us to deliver increasingly differentiated offerings to capitalize on emerging secular trends. We're also seeing the benefit of the discipline we've instilled in our pricing capabilities over the last two-plus years. Price realization continues to accelerate, contributing nearly six points to overall organic revenue in the quarter. You see that most clearly in our shorter-cycle global products business, but it's also accelerating in our longer-cycle field businesses. We also continue to gain traction on our key vectors of growth. Global efforts to decarbonize economies and ensure the health of indoor environments are accelerating, both supported by the adoption of new policies by governments and industry associations. At the same time, we continue to accelerate actions to optimize the efficiency of our cost structure, and we remain on track to deliver $230 million in productivity savings this year. We have deployed over $1.5 billion in capital year to date, including over $1 billion in share repurchase and more than $400 million in cash dividends. Our M&A pipeline continues to build with a number of active opportunities that would allow us to support our vectors of growth. I'm incredibly proud of the progress we have made toward achieving our strategic objectives year to date. As we have said in the past, we truly believe we are among the best in class when it comes to the ability to deliver fully integrated solutions designed to address the challenges associated with the global secular trends developing across our industry. We are operating in a very dynamic environment with heightened supply chain disruptions.

 



 Second quarter profit underperformed relative to our expectations. And while the anticipated supply chain improvement is happening, it is happening at a slower pace. Let's turn to Slide 4 for more detail on what we're seeing in the North America segment. Demand remained strong, with orders up 13%. Our backlog grew 14% to a record $6.9 billion. Just as in other parts of the organization, we are advancing our strategic priorities to accelerate growth by addressing the sustainability and healthy building needs of our customers. Going into the quarter, we anticipated continued challenges related to supply chain disruptions and material availability, more specifically, inadequate supply of semiconductor chips and components or controls products. The margin underperformance relative to our expectations can largely be explained by the pace and mix of backlog conversion, resulting in lower absorption on our cost base. As we described to you on our last call, in any given quarter, we are typically executing on about 40,000 projects across install and service. Each of these projects requires a significant amount of coordination. In the current environment, managing through our own material shortages, in addition to our suppliers and customer supply chain and labor constraints, magnifies any slippage. Additionally, given the pace of orders we have seen and the backlog we have been building, we have maintained our investment in sales headcount and service technicians. With revenue conversion and mix below our plan, we were not able to fully cover the higher cost of reinvestment in the quarter. The last point I would make on this is on timing. Our initial forecast in late January assumed a modest recovery in supply chain conditions as we progress through Q2. Although there were some improvements in the quarter, the recovery was slower to materialize, which coincided with the seasonal ramp into our peak season during the month of March. Net-net, these two issues accounted for a $40 million profit impact in North America. We expect a slower pace of improvement to continue throughout the second half, which is the primary contributor to our lower outlook for the year. Despite these challenges, we are confident the backlog is turning, driving higher revenue growth with more accretive margins as we think ahead to 2023. Please turn to Slide 5. OpenBlue remains the core of our strategy to digitize our portfolio to enable differentiated outcome-based solutions. During the quarter, we commercialized several exciting new offerings, including the OpenBlue Gateway, a cost-effective, easy-to-install device that will serve as a key enabler to accelerate the connection of our installed base. OpenBlue Net Zero Advisor, we'll be launching within the next several weeks. It'll help customers manage Scope 1 and 2 emissions in their journey to achieve Net Zero. Lastly, OpenBlue Connected Controls will be the first full integration of OpenBlue into our legacy Metasys systems, which we believe will be a disruptive offering that will fundamentally change how building automation systems operate, increasing the intelligence of building controls by infusing AI. Importantly, this offering will allow us to extend our reach further into the mid-market with a compelling plug-and-play solution. Let's turn to Slide 6. We continue to make progress in the digital transformation of our service business, leveraging OpenBlue to further differentiate our capabilities. We're on a path to drive higher attach rates on our installed base, increase the level of connectivity of those assets, and then, as a result of differentiated service offerings, drive higher revenue per customer and lower our attrition rates. This service growth flywheel is a clear algorithm that helps us achieve above-market levels of growth expected to generate over $2 billion in sales through 2024. Although we are still in the early stages of this process, our core service business, augmented by early results from digital services, performed well in the quarter. Sales were up 8% overall, with orders up 10%. Our attach rate improved another 130 basis points in the quarter, bringing us to over 200 basis points year to date, well on track to achieve our 400 to 500 basis point target for the full year. Digital Services increased 7% in the quarter. Turning now to Slide 7. The global commitment to decarbonize economies continues to gain momentum, both in the public and private sectors. There was also increased recognition that economies cannot truly decarbonize without decarbonizing buildings, which contribute 40% of the planet's greenhouse gas emissions. Rising energy prices and the potential risk of supply shocks are forcing many governments to reconsider sources and uses of fuel. The combination of higher energy prices and security risks are making paybacks much more attractive. We continue to see policy moves and commitments from corporations that support the carbon reduction of buildings. Our deep understanding of the building ecosystem uniquely positions us to capitalize on these trends. During the quarter, we completed the full commercialization of ourNet Zero capabilities. Our performance infrastructure business has evolved into a global organization we now refer to as sustainability infrastructure, backed by decades of experience delivering guaranteed savings and an extensive network of subject matter experts. The breadth of our installed base, the depth of our field presence, supported by an industry-leading portfolio of digital products and solutions, delivers a holistic solution for customers to achieve Net Zero. We continue to make progress. Year to date, our sustainability infrastructure business has booked over $450 million in orders, and our unfactored pipeline now exceeds $7 billion. Continuing with our vectors of growth on Slide 8, healthy buildings. We were encouraged by the recent initiative launched by the White House and the EPA. Both customers and government agencies increasingly see the long-term value of investing in improvements in building health and resiliency. And it is not just focused on K-12, nor is it only related to COVID response. We are strategically well-positioned to capitalize on the adoption of healthy building trends. We continue to develop and deploy new offerings with a focus on shifting the value proposition to longer term, more strategic asset management. During the quarter, our healthy buildings orders were up more than 30% to $150 million, and our pipelines continue to build. Finally, on Slide 9, we continue to demonstrate our leadership in sustainability and ESG. We are perhaps most proud of our own chief sustainability officer, Katie McGinty, recently being named as the Top Woman in Sustainability in the corporate world. To close out my prepared remarks, I remain extremely excited about the continued advancements we have made relative to our key growth vectors, and I couldn't be more pleased with the way our teams are executing in such a difficult environment. We remain laser-focused on our strategic commitments and to delivering the outcomes our customers need on the path to a healthy and more sustainable future. Although we are navigating through a more challenging environment with increased uncertainty regarding the macro backdrop, I am confident in our path forward. Momentum within our short-cycle products business is solid. Our backlog is strong, and the margin profile is inflecting as we lap prior-year order intake, all of which sets us up well for 2023 and beyond. With that, I'm going to turn the call over to Olivier to walk you through the financial details in the quarter and update you on our outlook. Olivier?Olivier Leonetti -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, George, and good morning, everyone. Let me start with the summary on Slide 10. Sales in the quarter were up 9% organically, at the high end of our original guidance for high single-digit growth, with price contributing nearly six points above what we originally anticipated. We saw strong performance across our shorter-cycle global products portfolio, up 14%. Our longer-cycle field business also performed well, up 7%, with solid growth in both service and install. Segment EBITA increased 8%, with margin down 10 basis points to 12.6%. Solid underlying volume leverage and the benefit of our ongoing SG&A and COGS programs were offset by higher inflation and supply chain-related challenges, as George discussed earlier. Despite achieving over $200 million in price on the top line, price/cost was slightly negative in the quarter and, together with supply chain disruptions, resulted in a 160 basis points margin headwind. EPS up $0.63, increased 21% year over year, benefiting from higher profitability as well as lower share count. Free cash flow was down as the prior year benefited from lower working capital needs and COVID-related benefits. Turning to our EPS bridge on Slide 11. Overall, operations contributed $0.10 versus the prior year, including an $0.08 benefit from our COGS and SG&A productivity programs. Underlying segment earnings were a net $0.02 tailwind year over year. Excluding the extra headwinds from price/cost and supply chain disruptions, underlying incrementals in Q2 were approximately 36%. Please turn to Slide 12. Orders for our field businesses increased 11% in aggregate with continued momentum on a two-year stack basis. Service orders were led by high teens growth in our shorter-term transactional business. Install orders continue to rebound, primarily driven by demand for applied HVAC and controls systems. Backlog grew 12% to $10.9 billion, a $1.2 billion increase versus the prior year and up $500 million sequentially. Secured margin backlog is up 80 basis points in the quarter, reflecting our pricing discipline and the improving margin trend we expect as this backlog converts later this year and into 2023. Let's discuss our segment results in more detail on Slide 13 and 14. Sales in North America were up 6% organically, with broad-based growth across the portfolio, led primarily by strength in our Applied business, up low double digits. Fire and security grew low single digits. Orders were up 13%, with low teens growth in Applied, driven by continued equipment demand in the data center, K-12 and healthcare verticals. Sustainability infrastructure orders were up mid-teens despite a strong double-digit compare as we booked another large energy services project with the U.S. public schools system. Fire and security orders were up low double digits, and backlog ended the quarter at $6.9 billion, up 14% year over year. Segment margin decreased 210 basis points to 10.6% as volume leverage and cost savings were more than offset by a 250 basis point headwind from the pace and mix of backlog conversion and lower absorption, as George described earlier. EMEALA, we saw continued strength in the core fire and security business, which grew at a high single-digit rate in Q2. Industrial refrigeration grew high single digits, driven by the conversion of several large industrial heat pump projects. Orders were up 8%, led by low double-digit growth in our core fire and security platform. Backlog was up 9% to $2.2 billion. Underlying margin performance was driven by volume leverage, positive price/cost and the benefit of cost savings, offset by supply chain disruptions and lower equity income. Sales in Asia Pacific were led by low double-digit growth in applied HVAC. China continued to outperform with revenue up nearly 20%, led by strong double-digit growth in industrial refrigeration and mid-teens growth in Applied. Orders increased 8% with continued strength in Applied, driven primarily by continued momentum with the industrial vertical in China with a continued pipeline of infrastructure investment across key verticals like Petrochem, semiconductor and data center as well as healthcare. Backlog of $1.8 billion was up 5% year over year. The decline in margin was primarily the result of headwinds from price/cost and unfavorable project and geographic mix. Global products continued to perform well, up 14% in Q2, with broad-based strength across the portfolio, led by mid-teens growth across our HVAC equipment platforms. Global residential HVAC sales were up 15% in aggregate. North America resi HVAC was up 27%, benefiting from both higher growth in our equipment and parts business and strong price realization. Production in our new facility in Mexico continues to ramp and contributed meaningfully to volume growth in the quarter. Outside of North America, our resi HVAC business grew low double digits, led by strong double-digit growth in Europe, driven by strong demand for our Hitachi residential heat pumps. APAC resi HVAC sales grew high single digits, led by strong growth in India and Taiwan. Commercial HVAC product sales were up high teens in aggregate, with strength in light commercial, driven by strong performance at Hitachi as well as 20% growth in North America and more than 20% growth in VRF. Fire and security products grew low double digits in aggregate with strong demand across the entire portfolio. Although not recorded in our official field order backlog, global products orders were up mid-teens organically, and our third-party backlog exceeded $2 billion. EBITA margins expanded 170 basis points to 16.1% as volume leverage, higher equity income, and the benefit of productivity actions more than offset headwinds from price/cost. Turning to our balance sheet and cash flow on Slide 15. Our balance sheet remains in great shape. We ended Q2 with $1.8 billion in available cash and net debt at 2.1 times, still at the lower end of our target range of 2 to 2.5 times. Free cash flow was an outflow of $200 million in the quarter, driven primarily by higher year-over-year working capital requirements, higher capex, and the absence of prior period tax credits and other COVID-related benefits. Trade working capital as a percentage of sales declined 50 basis points to 8.6%. For the first half, we are fairly neutral on free cash flow, which brings us back in line with our normal first half, second half seasonality. We repurchased another 7 million shares for just over $500 million in the second quarter, bringing us to just over $1 billion for the year. Now let's discuss our revised guidance on Slide 16. Underlying demand trends across most of our businesses continue to improve, and I'm encouraged by the pace of order growth we have seen year to date. As George highlighted in his remarks, the ongoing supply chain challenges impacting the pace and mix of our backlog conversion in North America is driving a reduction in our outlook for the rest of the year. As a result, we are revising our full year adjusted EPS range to $2.95 to $3.05, which represents 11% to 15% growth year over year. On the top line, we still expect to grow 8% to 10% organically. Price is now expected to contribute six to seven points, up an additional one to two points relative to our prior expectation, fully offsetting additional inflation. For the full year, we still expect to be slightly positive on price/cost. Segment margin is now expected to come in flat to down 30 basis points, reflecting pressure related to additional price on the top line with minimal margin contribution and the mix impact associated with the supply chain disruptions in North America. Combined, these two factors results in an 80 basis points margin headwind relative to our prior guide and now account for nearly a 150 basis point headwind versus the prior year. As it relates to the ongoing lockdowns in China and the conflict in Ukraine, we are monitoring the developments daily. From a planning standpoint, although it is difficult to model precisely, we have embedded some incremental contingency to account for the additional uncertainty surrounding the supply chain for the balance of the year. This is reflected in our updated segment margin guidance for the year. Full year free cash flow conversion is now expected to be about 90% as the inventory buildup in the first half, combined with slower backlog conversion, creates nearly a $200 million headwind to our prior guidance. Turning to Q3. We expect the headwinds related to supply chain to skew slightly more toward the third quarter, with EPS expected to be in the range of $0.82 to $0.87, which assumes organic revenue growth of high single digits and a segment margin decline of 80 to 100 basis points. Although our expected backlog conversion rates are challenged near term due to supply chain issues, I'm confident in our long-term outlook. We have strategically positioned the company to accelerate growth, aligned with competing secular trends impacting buildings for the next decade. We continue to make good progress on our cost productivity program. And as backlog conversion normalize in 2023, margins are expected to recover, keeping us on track for the fiscal 2024 targets we provided at our Investor Day last September. With that, operator, please open the lines for questions. 