
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Healthpeak Properties, Inc. First Quarter Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Andrew Johns, Vice President, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Andrew Johns -- Vice President-Corporate Finance and Investor Relations

 



Thank you, and welcome to Healthcare's First Quarter 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. Today's conference call will contain certain forward-looking statements. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. A discussion of risks and risk factors included in our press release are detailed in our filings with the SEC. We do not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements.Certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on this call. In an exhibit that the 8-K we furnished with the SEC yesterday, we have reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements. The exhibit is also available on our website at healthpeak.com.I will now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer, Tom Herzog.Thomas M. Herzog -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Andrew, and good morning, everyone. On the call with me today are Scott Brinker, our President and CIO; and Pete Scott, our CFO. Also on the line and available for the Q&A portion of the call are Tom Klaritch, our COO; and Troy McHenry, our Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel. We had a strong start to the year and continued executing on all aspects of the plan we communicated over the past few quarters. Let me hit the high points. Our operations across all three of our core businesses were ahead of expectations.We closed on an additional $1 billion of rental senior housing sales and have over $400 million of additional sales under hard or soft contract. We completed proprietary acquisitions of $422 million of on-campus or affiliated MOBs with another $150 million under fixed price purchase option. Also, we have a strong pipeline for additional off-market acquisitions. Our development pipeline progress and projected deliveries and pre-leasing remained favorable. And as we previously announced, we added one new development start from our land bank in South San Francisco and a densification development start in Torrey Pines, San Diego, and are already seeing strong leasing and interest in both.As we alluded to last quarter, yesterday, we announced an additional tender for $550 million of bonds. Our decade-long ESG commitment continues to produce notable achievements. Later this month, we look forward to publishing our tenth annual ESG report. And given our operational progress, transaction timing and stronger-than-expected trends, we raised our FFO as adjusted guidance by a couple of pennies at the midpoint and same-store guidance by 25 basis points at the midpoint. Everything is progressing very well. Brinker and Pete will provide the details.With that, I'll turn it over to Scott Brinker.

 



Scott M. Brinker -- President and Chief Investment OfficerThank you, Tom. I'll start with operating results, then provide an update on senior housing sales and finish with investments. In Life Science, we're very well positioned with our footprint, relationships and strong industry fundamentals. We reported 8.5% same-store cash NOI growth in the first quarter, driven by rent escalators, higher occupancy and mark-to-market on renewals. The results were above our internal expectations as we saw an acceleration of leasing activity and rental rates across the Bay Area, San Diego and Boston, which comprise 97% of our life science NOI. Our momentum continued into April as we signed 290,000 square feet of leases with another 310,000 currently under letter of intent. Turning to medical office.Same-store cash NOI grew 2.1% in the first quarter, driven by rent escalators, 2% cash mark-to-market on renewals and favorable expenses. The results exceeded our internal forecast for the quarter. Leasing demand remains robust. Over 615,000 square feet of leases commenced in the first quarter, including more than 500,000 square feet on renewals, contributing to a trailing 12-month retention rate of 80%. We're seeing the benefit of our digital marketing initiatives as MOB virtual tours have increased dramatically. Our digital tour technology in all three business segments will benefit the platform long after COVID is behind us. Turning to CCRCs.The inflection point occurred sooner than we expected as occupancy across the portfolio increased 10 basis points from December to March and an additional 40 basis points in April. The trends are encouraging, especially at LCS, where leases in the first quarter exceeded 2019 levels and tours increased by nearly 70%, driven in part by our digital marketing initiatives. Entry fee sales are up 80% from the low point in 2Q '20. The effective vaccine rollout and a strong housing market support continued improvement. Same-store cash NOI growth was negative 16.5% for the quarter driven by year-over-year occupancy declines from COVID.The first quarter pool consists of just two properties, which limits the usefulness of the metric. As the LCS properties entered the pool starting in 2Q a quarterly same-store result will become more representative. The fiscal year pool will remain just the two Sunrise properties in 2021. Moving to senior housing dispositions. We closed on an additional $1 billion since our last earnings call. We signed purchase agreements or letters of intent on all of our remaining SHOP and triple-net properties with the closing time lines driven by licensure and debt assumption. The majority are under hard contracts with money at risk, and we continue to evaluate our sovereign wealth joint venture alongside our partners.Overall pricing remains in line with previous disclosures. The most recent $1 billion of SHOP assets were sold a 2.6% cap rate on annualized trailing three month NOI, excluding CARES Act revenue, and a 4.9% cap rate on pre-COVID NOI. With the vast majority of the asset sales now behind us, we're able to shift nearly 100% of our transaction focus to strategic investments in our three core business segments, and advancing our densification opportunities. For example, with our life science occupancy in the high 90s, we announced in March the commencement of the $159 million Nexus development in South San Francisco and the $135 million Callan Ridge densification in Torrey Pines. Both projects have generated significant interest from tenants before we started to dig foundations.We also completed development at 75 Hayden in Lexington, the campus sits strategically at the intersection of Route 128 and Route two and now totals more than 600,000 square feet across three buildings that are 100% leased. We continue to advance our shadow development and densification pipeline. In April, we closed on the first phase of the previously announced acquisition of land on Forbes Boulevard in the heart of South San Francisco. The remaining parcels in that acquisition should close later this year. Combined with our existing holdings, we branded the 20-acre site under the new name of Vantage.The project will become a highly prominent phased development totaling one million square feet or more. Demand in South San Francisco remains robust, and we hold a dominant position in the submarket, controlling nearly 50% of the landlord owned lab inventory. We have the ability to double our footprint in the submarket over time through our existing land bank and densification opportunities. Moving to acquisitions. We've been active in medical office, finding attractive opportunities to redeploy senior housing sale proceeds. All of the acquisitions I'll describe today were done on a proprietary basis through relationships.In some cases, we effectively executed asset swaps with the same counterparty, trading senior housing assets for life science and medical office, which eliminated our risk around execution, timing and tax on more than $2 billion of transactions. In April, we acquired a 14-property MOB portfolio with 833,000 square feet for $371 million. The portfolio is 100% on campus or affiliated with a seven year weighted average lease term.The acquisition expands and/or creates relationships with leading regional health systems, including Bon Secours in Virginia; Inova in Washington, D.C.; NorthShore in Chicago; HCA in Los Angeles and Fairview in Minneapolis. The year one cash cap rate is 5.2%. There's occupancy upside at several of the properties, so the stabilized cap rate is in the high 5s. Stepping back, one unique aspect of Healthpeak across all three business segments is our campus model, where we have significant scale in a single location, and we're strategically adding to three of our most important MOB campuses.You'll recall that we recently acquired a 5.4 acre parcel at Medical City Dallas that will support up to one million square feet of expansion, which is on top of the existing 2.1 million square feet that we already own. And in February, we acquired a 6% stabilized cap rate, a 48,000 square foot MOB on the Centennial Campus in Nashville, including our development that delivers in the fourth quarter, helped people own 830,000 square feet across nine MOBs on this market-leading campus.And most recently, in April, we acquired for a 5.5% stabilized cap rate, a recently developed 80,000 square foot MOB located on the market-leading Sky Ridge Hospital campus in Denver. This brings our ownership at the campus to 420,000 square feet. Our acquisition pipeline is sizable as well, including an option agreement for $150 million of MOBs with strong health system affiliation.We're in a good position to capitalize on these opportunities, which is a good segue to Pete to cover financial results and the balance sheet.Peter A. Scott -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Scott. I'll start today with a review of our financial results, provide an update on our recent balance sheet activity and finish with a discussion of our 2021 guidance. Starting with our financial results. For the first quarter, we reported FFO as adjusted of $0.40 per share and blended same-store growth of 4.3%. In addition, on April 29, our Board declared a dividend of $0.30 per share, representing a payout ratio of approximately 88% for the first quarter. Turning to our balance sheet.We ended the quarter with net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 5.4 times, in line with our expectations. As previously announced, we intended to use a portion of our senior housing disposition proceeds to repay near-term debt. As such, during the first quarter, we completed the repayment of $1.45 billion of bonds maturing in 2023 and 2024. Yesterday, we announced the tender offer to purchase up to $550 million of 2025 bonds, allowing us to minimize dilution from sitting on debt cash and further improve our balance sheet.Pro forma for the $550 million repayment, our weighted average maturity improves to 6.5 years. With our senior housing dispositions now largely complete, we are not planning any further bond repayments beyond the $2 billion that has been completed or announced. Turning to our guidance. As Tom and Scott mentioned, we have started the year on a strong note with all of our segments performing above our initial expectations. As a result, we have made the decision to increase our guidance as follows: FFO adjusted revised from $1.50 to $1.60 per share to $1.53 to $1.61 per share, an increase of $0.02 at the midpoint.Blended same-store NOI growth revised from 1.5% to 3% to 1.75% to 3.25%, an increase of 25 basis points at the midpoint. Let me spend a minute level setting all the major components of our revised guidance. First, we see an increase in FFO of roughly $0.01 to $0.02 from improved performance across all three of our segments, which impacts both the low and high end of our guidance range. In life science, as Scott mentioned, we had a very strong first quarter. As a result, we have increased our full year same-store range to 4.5% to 5.5%, an increase of 50 basis points. We do expect some modest deceleration as the year progresses, plus we proactively terminated an 80,000 square foot lease at our Redwood City campus to allow an existing tenant to grow within our portfolio.The positive rent mark-to-market is over 40%, but as a result of downtime, it will negatively impact 2021 same-store results by 75 basis points. However, it provides a significant earnings and same-store benefit to 2022 and beyond. In medical office, we have started the year with stronger-than-expected leasing with demand for outpatient elective procedures continuing to improve. We had originally expected a more challenging first quarter due to a difficult year-over-year comp. Based on the first quarter performance exceeding our forecast, we have increased our full year same-store range to 1.75% to 2.75%, an increase of 25 basis points.In CCRCs, with the success of the vaccine rollout and 100% of our properties open to new admissions we are beginning to see improved performance. Recent occupancy trends are favorable, expenses have moderated, and we are seeing an uptick in entrance fees. As a result, we have increased the midpoint of our LCS portfolio guidance range by $7.5 million and tightened the range. While there are still a lot of moving pieces, if the trends we are seeing continue to ramp at the current pace, perhaps we are still a bit conservative with our forecast, and we will assess as the year progresses.Second, we see an increase in FFO of roughly $0.01 to $0.02 from the timing and amount of acquisition activity from the reinvestment of sale proceeds. We have increased the lower end of our acquisition guidance to $700 million, an increase of $550 million. As a reminder, our plan assumed funding all acquisition activity with newly issued debt, bringing net debt to EBITDA back to our target of 5.5 times at the high end. For now, we have kept the high end of our acquisition assumptions unchanged, although our pipeline has been building, so stay tuned. Third, Interest rates have ticked up a bit, so we have increased our expected issuance rate to 2.75%, an increase of 25 basis points from our prior assumption.One last item before Q&A. With our portfolio repositioning winding down, we completed a comprehensive review of our supplemental and realigned our disclosures to the current portfolio. On page 40 of the supplemental, we have provided a table summarizing the key additions.With that, operator, let's open the line for Q&A.