
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the MAA Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded, July 29, 2021.I will now turn the call over to Tim Argo, Senior Vice President of Finance of MAA for opening comments.Tim Argo -- enior Vice President and Director Of New Construction

 



Thank you, Malorie, and good morning, everyone. This is Tim Argo, Senior Vice President of Finance for MAA. With me are Eric Bolton, our CEO; Al Campbell, our CFO; Rob DelPriore, our General Counsel; Tom Grimes, our COO; and Brad Hill, our Head of Transactions. Before we begin with our prepared comments this morning, I want to point out that as part of the discussion, company management will be making forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from our projections. We encourage you to refer to the forward-looking statements section in yesterday's earnings release and our 34-Act filings with the SEC, which describe risk factors that may impact future results. These reports, along with a copy of today's prepared comments and an audio copy of this morning's call will be available on our website. During this call, we will also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures as well as reconciliations of the differences between non-GAAP and comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings release and supplemental financial data, which are available on the For Investors page of our website at www.maac.com.I will now turn the call over to Eric.H. Eric Bolton -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Tim, and good morning, everyone. MAA had a strong second quarter with rent growth, same-store NOI and core FFO results ahead of expectations. Strong job growth and positive migration trends continue to drive higher demand for housing across our Sunbelt markets, and we expect continued strong rent growth. As noted in our earnings release, we are adjusting our performance expectations for the year and meaningfully increasing guidance for core FFO performance. The various factors that were driving employers and households to the Sunbelt markets before the impact of COVID continue. In addition, the COVID-related recalibrating by both employers and employees about where they choose to do business and live continues to also fuel higher demand trends across the Sunbelt, and those trends are accelerating. The new residents that we moved in year-to-date from outside of our Sunbelt footprint increased another 265 basis points as compared to the first six months of last year during the peak of COVID-related relocations. New move-ins from renters relocating to the Sunbelt currently constitute almost 13% of our new leases so far this year and are trending higher. During the second quarter in a number of markets such as Phoenix, Tampa, Nashville and Charleston, the percentage of new residents moving to our properties from outside the Sunbelt was even higher. As housing demand grows across the region, investor appetite for apartment real estate in the Sunbelt is also increasing. As Brad will touch on, we continue to see very aggressive bidding in the acquisition market with downward pressure on cap rates. MAA is well positioned to harvest the opportunities surrounding our longtime focus on the Sunbelt markets with a uniquely diversified strategy across the region. Strong leasing fundamentals, coupled with extensive redevelopment and repositioning opportunities along with the continued roll-out of new technology initiatives that will drive further margin expansion have us excited about the momentum from the same-store portfolio. In addition, as noted in our earnings release, we continue to expand our external growth platform with earnings-accretive new development and have several other projects currently under contract and in predevelopment. As always, I want to send a big thank you and message of well done to our team of MAA associates.

 



Your dedication and commitment to serving our residents and supporting each other is critical to our success and is key in driving our strong performance. Tom?Thomas L. Grimes -- Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Eric, and good morning, everyone. We saw strong pricing performance across the portfolio during the second quarter. Blended lease-over-lease pricing during the quarter was up 8.2%. As a result, all in-place rents on a year-over-year basis grew to 3.1%. This is more than double the 1.3% growth rate of the first quarter. Average effective rent growth is our primary driver. And with the current blended pricing momentum, we expect it to continue to strengthen through the remainder of the year. In addition, average daily occupancy for the quarter increased to 96.4%. As outlined in the release, we saw steady progress on our product upgrade initiatives. This includes our interior unit redevelopment program as well as the installation of our Smart Home technology package that includes mobile control of lights, thermostat and security as well as leak detection. For the full year 2021, we expect to complete just over 6,000 interior unit upgrades and install 22,000 Smart Home packages. We're also in the final stages of completing the repositioning work on our first eight full repositioned properties and have another eight that will begin this year. Leasing activity for July has been strong. New lease-over-lease pricing month to date for July is running close to 17% ahead of rent on the prior lease. Renewal lease pricing in July is running 9% ahead of the prior lease. As a result, blended pricing for the portfolio is up 12% so far in July. Average daily occupancy for the month is currently 96.1%, which is 80 basis points better than July of last year. Exposure, which is all vacant units plus notices through a 60-day period, is just 7.1%. This is 100 basis points better than prior year. This supports our ability to continue to prioritize rent growth and indicates that new lease pricing will peak seasonally later than historic norms. We are well positioned as we move into the third quarter. I'd like to echo Eric's comments and thank our teams as well. They have shown tremendous adaptability and resilience over the last year. I'm proud of them and excited for their progress in '21.Thanks, and I'll turn it over to Brad.

 



A. Bradley Hill -- Executive Vice President & Director Of Multifamily InvestingThanks, Tom, and good morning, everyone. The strong investor demand for multifamily properties in our footprint that began prior to COVID continues to strengthen today. Transaction volume is up significantly since the first quarter as investors look to buy into the strong rent growth outlook in our Sunbelt markets. Strong leasing fundamentals, coupled with robust investor demand, have accelerated pricing growth, putting additional downward pressure on cap rates. Cap rates on deals we underwrote in the second quarter have compressed another 25 basis points from first quarter and the compression has accelerated in the last 30 days, pushing cap rates down approximately 100 basis points since first quarter of '20. We like the overall balance and unique diversification of our Sunbelt-oriented portfolio and have no need to change our market weightings by participating in the aggressive pricing market for existing properties. Therefore, we will continue to focus our capital deployment efforts on new development and prepurchase opportunities, which provide higher yields, higher growth and a much lower basis than the acquisition opportunities we're seeing in the current market. We continue to make progress on our development pipeline. As noted in our release, we closed and started construction on two prepurchase projects in the second quarter, bringing our prepurchase and development pipeline, both under construction and in lease-up, to 3,347 units at a total cost of $775 million. In addition to these two projects, we have a number of other development sites owned or under contract and hope to start construction on several projects later this year and into 2022. Our predevelopment opportunities are in Denver, Salt Lake City, Tampa, Raleigh and Nashville, all existing markets within our portfolio footprint. We continue to see very strong leasing demand in our region of the country and our recently completed properties in Dallas and Phoenix that are currently in lease-up reflect this strong demand. Both properties continue to perform very well with rents and leasing velocity at or above pro forma.All of our under-construction projects remain on budget and on schedule despite continued cost pressures and supply chain disruptions. Our under-construction projects have fixed cost construction contracts, so they remain on budget, but we are seeing continued cost pressure on new projects. While the lumber-related run-up in construction costs that we saw in the first half of the year has begun to mitigate a bit, we are seeing cost pressures related to other commodities that we will continue to monitor. Supply chain disruptions related to appliances, cabinets, windows and electrical components are occurring, but our teams have done a great job working around these issues with very minimal impact to our delivery schedules. As part of our planned dispositions for 2021, we exited the Jackson, Mississippi market at the end of the second quarter with the sale of our four properties. For these assets with an average age of 36 years, we achieved strong pricing of $160 million, which was above the top end of our expectations. We are early in the process, but we're in the market with three other properties that we expect to close before the end of the year. That's all I have in the way of comments.I'll turn it over to Al.Albert M. Campbell -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Brad. The strong second quarter operating performance produced core FFO that was at the top end of our prior guidance range or $0.08 per share above the midpoint, which also supports improved performance expectations over the remainder of the year. As you saw in our release, we are significantly increasing our guidance for both core FFO and same-store performance for the full year. The increases are primarily based on projections of continued high occupancy levels remaining essentially full between 95.5% and 96% over the remainder of the year and continued strong rental pricing growth over the second half, particularly during the third quarter with some typical seasonal moderation expected in the fourth quarter. This supports a revised revenue growth projection for the full year of 4% at the midpoint of guidance, which is 200 basis points above the prior midpoint. Same-store operating expenses have largely been in line with our expectations for the year. As outlined earlier in the year, we expected expenses to be somewhat elevated during the first half, mainly related to the impact of our Double Play program, the difficult prior year insurance renewal as well as some continued pressure on real estate taxes, which represent about 40% of our total operating costs overall.The growth rate for total operating expenses over the second half is still expected to moderate as originally projected with some impact from increased property level performance-based awards and inflationary pressures on repair and maintenance costs driving an increase to the midpoint of the expected growth by about 50 basis points for the full year. Finally, our balance sheet remains very strong. As Brad outlined in his comments, our development opportunities continue to grow. We expect our total pipeline of development communities in construction and lease-up comprised of both in-house and prepurchase deals to end the year just over $800 million, which is well within our defined risk tolerances while we expect the new high-yielding projects to be very accretive to earnings and value in 2023 and beyond. Our financing plans continue to include some activity over the second half of the year. Current market conditions appear to be stable and strong, supporting good pricing expectations across the maturity curve. We also continue to have positive discussions with the rating agencies regarding our corporate rating. We believe our current ratings are fairly conservative, and we look forward to continued discussions with all agencies over the next few quarters. That's all that we have in the way of prepared comments.So Malorie, we will now turn the call back over to you for any questions.