
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Martin Marietta's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Ms. Suzanne Osberg, Martin Marietta's Vice President of Investor Relations. Suzanne, you may begin.Suzanne Osberg -- Vice President of Investors RelationGood morning, and thank you for joining Martin Marietta's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. With me today are Ward Nye, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Nickolas, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. As a reminder, today's discussion may include forward-looking statements as defined by United States securities laws in connection with future events, future operating results or financial performance. Like other businesses, Martin Marietta is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Except as legally required, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether resulting from new information, future developments or otherwise.

 



Please refer to the legal disclaimers contained in today's earnings release and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available on both our own and the SEC websites. We've made available during this webcast and on the Investor Relations section of our website Q2 2021 supplemental information that summarizes our financial results and trends. In addition, any non-GAAP measures discussed today are defined and reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure in our earnings release and SEC filings. Ward Nye will begin today's earnings call with a discussion of our second quarter operating performance and current market trends as well as our recently announced acquisitions. Jim Nickolas will then review our financial results, after which Ward will provide some brief concluding remarks. A question-and-answer session will follow. I will now turn the call over to Ward.C. Howard Nye -- Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Suzanne, and thank you all for joining today's teleconference. Martin Marietta has once again reported impressive results, extending our strong track record of industry-leading performance and responsible growth. We delivered record profitability and the best safety performance in our company's history through the first half of the year. We're also making notable progress on our SOAR 2025 initiatives to further enhance our ability to capitalize on growing construction activity and favorable pricing dynamics in the post-pandemic landscape. We are confident about Martin Marietta's prospects for the remainder of 2021. In May, we announced an agreement to acquire Lehigh Hanson's West Region. Those of you who joined us early this year for our Investor Day were likely not surprised when you read the announcement.The acquisition, which is consistent with and advances to our 2025 provides a new upstream materials-led platform in three of the Western United States largest and fastest-growing mega regions. With this leading Pacific presence, we'll be well positioned to capitalize on long-term demand drivers from increased state infrastructure investment in California and Arizona as well as continued private sector growth across these regions. This strategic acquisition also provides Martin Marietta with an enhanced coast-to-coast geographic footprint and serves as a valuable platform for potential continued geographic expansion. We expect to close the transaction in the second half of 2021, following customary closing conditions. We look forward to welcoming the Lehigh West Region team to Martin Marietta.

 



We're also very pleased with the performance of our recently acquired Tiller operations in the Minneapolis/St. Paul region, which exceeded management's initial expectations since closing on April 30. Tiller contributed one million tons each of aggregates and asphalt during May and June and provides Martin Marietta an upstream materials platform in one of the largest and fastest-growing Midwestern metropolitan areas while also expanding and complementing our product offerings in our existing operations in surrounding markets. Integration into our Central division is underway, and synergy realization is progressing as planned. This business remains on track to contribute $60 million of adjusted EBITDA this year. Martin Marietta has established a long track record of superior value creation by prudently balancing inorganic growth opportunities while maintaining our strong balance sheet and returning capital to shareholders.Our latest acquisitions and successful growth initiatives demonstrate that SOAR and our disciplined capital deployment strategy continue to deliver significant value to our shareholders, customers and other stakeholders positioning our company for sustainable, long-term operational and financial success. Now let's turn to the company's second quarter performance. We achieved record second quarter revenues, gross profit, adjusted EBITDA and earnings per diluted share, driven by strengthening product demand, pricing gains across all product lines and meaningful contributions from the recently acquired Tiller acquisition. On a consolidated basis, products and services revenues increased 9% to $1.3 billion, adjusted gross profit increased 3% to $393 million, adjusted EBITDA increased 8% to $439 million, and adjusted diluted earnings per share increased 9% to $3.81.Our Building Materials business continued to benefit from single-family housing growth, infrastructure investment and heavy industrial projects of scale. Adverse weather, however, muted shipments, most notably in our top two revenue-generating states. Our aggregates, cement and ready-mix concrete operations in Texas experienced lower-than-expected shipment levels as a result of excessive rainfall. In fact, the second quarter was Texas' 11th wettest on record. Additionally, Colorado, home to our front range aggregates and downstream operations, surpassed average annual precipitation levels during the first half of the year. Second quarter aggregate shipments increased 1.5% on an organic basis and 3% in total. East Group total shipments grew 7%. Strong demand across all end-use markets in the Carolinas, Georgia, Florida and Maryland, combined with shipments from the acquired Tiller operations, more than offset lower shipments in the Midwest from weather-induced project delays.West Group shipments declined nearly 4% as mother nature interrupted otherwise robust construction activity in both Texas and Colorado. Organic aggregates average selling price increased over 3%, supported by our value over volume pricing strategy led by the East Group. Geographic mix from a lower percentage of higher-priced, long-haul shipments limited West Group's reported pricing gains. On a mix-adjusted basis, West group pricing increased 2.4%. We announced midyear price increases in a number of markets, which should further contribute to favorable pricing trends heading into next year. Our Texas cement business delivered solid operating performance despite significant precipitation that disrupted more than 1/3 of the quarter's available shipping days.

 



Second quarter shipments declined less than 2% as major projects in South Texas, along with recovering energy sector activity, helped mitigate weather impacts. Notably, we established an all-time record for monthly cement shipments in June, largely due to the robust demand and construction activity throughout the Texas Triangle. Second quarter cement pricing increased 7% or 4% on a mix adjusted basis as annual increases went into effect on April 1. Additionally, we've announced a second price increase of $8 per ton on September one [Indecipherable] The downstream businesses, ready mixed concrete shipments increased 8% despite significant weather headwinds, driven by incremental volume from large nonresidential projects and operations acquired last year in Texas. Concrete pricing increased modestly, reflecting geographic mix from a higher percentage of lower-priced Texas shipments.Overall, asphalt shipments increased 68% driven by contributions from the Tiller operations, which more than offset weather-related shipment declines in our Colorado asphalt and paving business. Colorado market fundamentals remain strong, supported by healthy bidding activity and overall customer optimism, organic asphalt pricing improved 4%. Looking ahead, we remain confident that Martin Marietta's attractive market fundamentals and accelerating long-term secular demand trends across our three primary end-use markets will drive increased levels of building activity and continued favorable pricing trends in the second half of 2021 and into the future. Demand for our construction products is growing, and we have both the ability and capacity to supply the needed building materials.However, transient contractor labor and supply shortages, compounded by weather deferred days that become increasingly difficult to recover as the year advances, can govern the near-term pace of overall construction activity. Fortunately, we expect work not completed this year to simply be pushed into 2022 and foresee bottlenecks like these moderating and throughput improving as federal unemployment benefits expire in September. We're also in the midst of the most significant seemingly bipartisan national infrastructure debate in a long time, with a number of proposals from both political parties to advance and address much needed investment. Regardless of the pathway to successor infrastructure legislation, all proposals provide for sizable increases in federal surface transportation funding over the Fixing America's Surface Transportation, or Fast Act.We're optimistic that meaningful progress in Washington, D.C. will be made, and a FAST Act replacement will be passed before its expiration in September. Such legislation would immediately stimulate economic growth, contractor optimism and job creation, while also driving meaningful product demand starting in late 2022 and beyond.Our company's top five states Department of Transportation, or DoTs, are well positioned to put increased transportation dollars to work. More specifically, Texas, Colorado, North Carolina, Georgia and Florida, which accounted for over 70% of our 2020 Building Materials revenues, have an abundance of projects in their backlog that would benefit from higher federal funding and generate growing demand for our products.At the same time, increased visibility and funding certainty at the federal level supports a healthy pricing environment for construction materials. For reference, aggregates shipments to the infrastructure market accounted for 34% of second quarter shipments, well below our 10-year historical average of 43%. Nonresidential construction continues to benefit from increased investment in aggregates intensive heavy industrial warehouses and data centers. We're also beginning to see early signs of recovery in the more COVID-19-impacted like commercial and retail sectors, notably in key markets such as Denver, Atlanta and the Texas Triangle. Light nonresidential activity should be a more significant demand driver in 2022, given the attractive drag along effects of strong single-family residential growth.Aggregates shipments to the nonresidential market accounted for 36% of second quarter shipments. Martin Marietta continues to be a beneficiary of single-family housing growth across the Southeast and Southwest. Single-family starts remained strong despite higher home prices and longer material delivery times, supported by significant underbuilding over the past decade, low mortgage rates and accelerated the urbanization trends. Importantly, single-family housing is two to three times more aggregates-intensive than multifamily construction given the ancillary nonresidential and infrastructure needs to build out new or expanding suburban communities. Aggregates to the residential market accounted for 25% of second quarter shipments. I'll now turn the call over to Jim to discuss more specifically our second quarter financial results. Jim?James A. J. Nickolas -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Ward, and good morning to everyone. The Building Materials business posted products and services revenues of $1.2 billion, a 7% increase from last year's second quarter and product gross profit of $357 million. Aggregates established second quarter records for revenues and gross profit. Higher diesel costs and a $6 million negative impact from selling acquired inventory that was marked up to fair value as part of acquisition accounting are reflected in product gross margin of 34%. Excluding the acquisition impact, adjusted aggregates product gross margin was 34.8%, a 70 basis point decline versus prior year.In addition, gross profit per ton shipped improved modestly when excluding the impact of acquisition accounting. Cement product gross margin declined 870 basis points despite top line growth, driven by the timing and scope of planned kiln maintenance as well as higher energy and raw material costs. While our first half results were impacted by some weather-related headwinds, our cement business is well positioned to benefit from a growing demand and tight supply. Ready mixed concrete product gross margin declined 350 basis points to 7% as shipment and pricing gains were offset by higher costs for raw materials and diesel. Magnesia Specialties continued to benefit from improving domestic steel production and global demand for magnesia chemical products, generating product revenues of $70 million, a 43% increase.Revenue growth more than offset higher energy costs for energy and contract services, driving a 260 basis point improvement [Indecipherable] Relative to often cited broader economic questions regarding supply chain and inflation, we are pleased that our overall supply chain remains resilient with only a handful of indications of strain for some suppliers. On the cost inflation front, the only notable headwinds we have seen are from increased energy costs. For the second quarter alone, our total energy costs increased $24 million companywide. Absent this headwind, our consolidated adjusted margins would have outpaced prior year, a testament to our team's commitment to cost control and operational excellence.We remain focused on the disciplined execution of our proven strategy and our long-standing capital allocation priorities that preserve our healthy balance sheet, financial flexibility and investment-grade credit rating profile. As Ward noted, we continue to balance value-enhancing inorganic growth opportunities with prudent capital spending and returning cash to shareholders. To that end, we have raised our full year capital spending guidance to $450 million to $500 million as we prioritize high-return capital projects focused on growing sales and increasing efficiency to drive margin expansion. Additionally, since our repurchase authorization announcement in February of 2015, we have returned $1.9 billion to shareholders through a combination of meaningful and sustainable dividends as well as share repurchases.As of June 30, our debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 1.9 times. In late June, we accessed the capital markets to finance the Lehigh West Region transaction, issuing $2.5 billion of senior notes with a weighted average interest rate of 2.2% and weighted average tenor of 15 years. The bond sales settled in early July and, as such, is not reflected in our second quarter results. We expect pro forma leverage at year-end to be above our target range. Consistent with our practice of repaying debt following significant acquisitions, we are committed to returning to our target leverage range of two to 2.5 times within 18 months following the closing of the transaction. As detailed in today's release, we have updated our full year guidance to reflect current expectations, the completion of the Tiller acquisition and the $2.5 billion bond offering. We now expect full year adjusted EBITDA to range from $1.465 billion to $1.535 billion. With that, I will turn the call back over to Ward.C. Howard Nye -- Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Jim. To conclude, we're proud of our record first half results and industry-leading safety performance and remain highly confident in our outlook for the balance of 2021. Martin Marietta is well positioned to capitalize on emerging growth trends that are expected to support sustainable construction activity, both in the near and long term. As we SOAR 2025 to a Sustainable Future, our focus remains on building the safest, best-performing and most sustainable aggregates-led public company. Thanks to our disciplined execution of SOAR, commitment to safe and efficient operations and our dedication to both commercial and operational excellence, today, Martin Marietta is superbly positioned. We're confident in Martin Marietta's ability to deliver sustainable growth and superior shareholder value in 2021 and beyond. If the operator will now provide the required instructions, we will turn our attention to addressing your questions.