  OperatorWelcome to Devon Energy's first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] This call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Scott Coody, vice president of investor relations. Sir, you may begin.Scott Coody -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good morning, and thank you to everyone for joining us on the call today. Last night, we issued an earnings release and presentation that cover our results for the quarter and our forward-looking outlook. Throughout the call today, we will make references to our earnings presentation to support our prepared remarks and these slides can be found on our website. Also joining me on the call today are Rick Muncrief, our president and CEO; Clay Gaspar, our chief operating officer; Jeff Ritenour, our chief financial officer; and a few other members of our senior management team. Comments today will include plans, forecasts, and estimates that are forward-looking statements under U.S. securities law. These comments are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements. Please take note of the cautionary language and risk factors provided in our SEC filings and earnings materials.With that, I'll turn the call over to Rick. Rick Muncrief -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Scott. It's good to be here this morning. We certainly appreciate everyone taking the time to join us today. It has now been nearly four months since the closing of the merger between Devon and WPX, creating a premier U.S. energy company that possesses a powerful suite of assets and a disciplined strategy to maximize value for our shareholders. With this advantaged platform, our merger integration efforts are complete and our go-forward team is highly energized and delivering on exactly what we promised. We are executing on our maintenance capital program, capturing cost synergies, generating free cash flow, and returning significant value to shareholders through higher dividends and the aggressive reduction of debt. The progress we have made with each of these strategic objectives is evidenced in our quarterly results and this is only just the beginning. It is going to be an excellent year for Devon as we continue to advance our strategic plan. Turning your attention to Slide 3. With many investors possibly new to our story, I would like to review why Devon has the right business model to maximize value for our shareholders. To ensure that we are excellent stewards of your capital, any successful strategy in a commodity business must be grounded in supply and demand fundamentals. With fundamentals signaling maturing demand dynamics for our industry, we fully recognize the traditional E&P model of prioritizing only production growth is not the correct strategy going forward. To optimize value creation in the next leg of the energy cycle, a company must deploy a financially driven model that prioritizes free cash flow generation over production growth. At Devon, this is exactly what we are doing. We're limiting top-line production growth from 0% to 5% in times of favorable conditions.

 



 We're pursuing margin expansion in earnings through scale and a leader -- leaner corporate cost structure. We're moderating reinvestment rates to levels substantially below that of cash flow. We're maintaining low levels of leverage to establish a greater margin of safety and we're returning more cash to shareholders via our innovative fixed-plus-variable dividend policy. Our talented team at Devon takes great pride that we are leading the industry with this disciplined operating framework. I personally feel it's time for industry to stop contemplating and talking about the possibilities of a cash return model and more quickly embrace this necessary change. High returns on capital employed, reduced reinvestment rates, and cash flow generation will determine the winners in this cycle, not the historic behavior of delivering outsized production growth. Now jumping ahead to Slide 4. And as I touched on briefly in my opening remarks, we delivered on exactly what we promised we would do in the first quarter. Our disciplined plan limited reinvestment rates to just over 60% of cash flow we substantially expanded margins and we continue to take steps to reduce our corporate cost. As you can see on the bar chart graph to the right, with the excess cash our business is generating more than 65% of our capital allocation has been deployed toward dividends and debt reduction. This return of capital to the shareholders is a clear differentiator for Devon. Looking specifically at the dividend, we were able to accelerate cash returns in the quarter through our innovative fixed-plus-variable dividend framework, which we implemented earlier this year. The initial benefits of this generous payout policy were evidenced in March when the owners of our company received their first variable dividend in conjunction with our regular fixed dividend. Based on first-quarter results, our board has approved another fixed-plus-variable dividend of $0.34 per share. This payout represents a 13% increase versus last quarter and is more than 3 times that of the same period a year ago. This thoughtful and uniquely designed dividend framework is foundational to our capital allocation process, providing us the flexibility to return cash to shareholders across a variety of market conditions through the cycle. In addition to the dividend, another way we returned value to shareholders was through our recent efforts to reduce debt and enhance our investment-grade financial strength. Since the closing of our merger, we have already retired $743 million of debt. With our actions year-to-date, we have executed on nearly half of our $1.5 billion authorized debt repurchase program and we expect to reach our target of 1 times net debt-to-EBITDA by year end. Jumping ahead to Slide 10. While first-quarter production was limited due to severe winter weather, I want to be clear that our operations are scaled to generate substantial amounts of free cash flow. Specifically, in 2021, we are on track to deliver a highly attractive free cash flow yield at today's spot price. The free cash flow yield story gets even better. If you look at us on an unhedged basis and assuming year-end run rates for cost synergies. This upside case is represented by the red line, showcasing a free cash flow yield in excess of 20% and at today's pricing. With this powerful cash flow stream, I feel it is important to reiterate that we have no intention of allocating capital to growth projects until demand side fundamentals recover and it becomes evident that OPEC+ spare oil capacity is effectively absorbed by the world markets. On Slide 12, with our cash return business model, building momentum, I want to highlight the unique value proposition that Devon offers from both a dividend and a growth perspective. To demonstrate this point, we've included a simple comparison of our estimated dividend yield in 2021 at $60 WTI pricing, assuming a 50% variable dividend payout. As you can see on the slide, Devon's implied dividend yield is not only highly differentiated compared to peers, but is vastly superior to virtually any other sector and asset class in the market today. Importantly, Devon is more than just a yield play. We have our quality and depth of resource within our portfolio to deliver sustainable per share growth that will reward shareholders for many years to come. The final topic I want to briefly touch on is with the integration of our operations progressing ahead of plan. In the very near future, we plan to issue more specific guidance on Devon's go forward environmental priorities. This disclosure will include formal targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, methane intensity rates and our strategy to improve upon other key performance measures. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Clay, our chief operating officer, to cover our recent operating highlights.Clay Gaspar -- Chief Operating Officer Thank you, Rick, and good morning, everyone. I first want to acknowledge the hard work that our organization has poured into this merger. Our team has made substantial progress integrating our organization, assets, and processes. We knew it was not the easy way to combine two strong companies, taking time to evaluate the best practices has proven to be a very valuable exercise. I'm here in the corporate office, to each of our field offices, I've seen some great examples of setting aside historical bias listening to new ideas and then coming together to find the right solution for the go-forward enterprise. External forces certainly have compounded the complexity. To pile on to the challenges of the pandemic, February's winter storm was a major event that, again, tested the resolve of our team. As it turned out, once again, I saw incredible leadership, innovation, and personal sacrifice in the name of the greater good. I saw many displays of our employees not only helping in expanded capacity for Devon, but also in their communities. This exemplifies the culture of the organization that we have and continue to refine. I'm pleased with the progress that we are making. I'm exceptionally excited about the future of Devon as we benefit from each other's legacy company best practices with an incredible portfolio and a rock-solid balance sheet. Let's flip to Slide 14 and we can discuss our world-class Delaware Basin asset. Once again, the Delaware Basin was the driving force behind our operational performance for the quarter, with our capital activity focused on low-risk development projects, higher-margin production grew 19% year over year on a pro forma basis. This strong production result was driven by a Wolfcamp oriented production program which accounted for roughly two-thirds of the 52 wells that commenced first production in the quarter. In the second quarter, we'll have several big pads that come on in the Stateline area, which will be a blend of Bone Spring and Wolfcamp completions. While the overall execution of our capital program was excellent in the quarter, new well activity was headlined by our Danger Noodle project in the Southwest County. This two-mile lateral development, targeting the Upper Wolfcamp achieved average 30-day rates of 5,100 BOE per day with a 67% oil cut. Importantly, the capital cost came in 20% below our pregeral expectations, driving returns on invested capital significantly higher than planned. Another key project for us this quarter was the 11 well thoroughbred development in Eddy County that codeveloped three Upper Wolfcamp intervals. Due to timing, we only have commenced first production on two wells, but these -- but thus far, these wells have been outstanding with peak rates exceeding 4,000 BOE per day. The remaining nine thoroughbred wells are being brought online and coupled with our current completion activity in the Stateline area. I think it's fair to state that we have a strong line of sight to our Delaware production profile and cash flow growth in the upcoming quarter. The final item I'd like to cover on this slide is the positive regulatory update regarding our federal acreage, which accounts for about a third of our total Delaware leasehold. As many of you are aware, earlier this year, the Department of Interior issued a directive that restricted permitting on federal land for a 60-day period. This order lapsed on March 22nd. And with the team's forethought and proactive planning, we navigated through the 60-day period without any impact to our day-to-day operations or full-year capital plan. What is even more encouraging is that since the order has lapsed, we've received approval on more than 50 new drilling permits. In aggregate and netting for the wells that we've drilled, we have about 500 federal drilling permits, reverting an inventory of about four years at the current drilling pace. Even though this positive regulatory news is right in line with our expectations, we will continue to be highly engaged and collaborative with policymakers to ensure that we retain the ability to effectively develop our federal leases and maximize value for all stakeholders involved. Moving to Slide 15. We continue to build upon our trend of operational excellence in the Delaware during the quarter. As you can see on the left-hand chart, our drilled and completed cost declined once again to $534 per lateral foot in the first quarter. These results rank among the very best in the industry and represent a 43% improvement from just a few years ago. This differentiated performance is underpinned by steadily improving cycle times, refined completion designs, and the deployment of leading-edge technology across all facets of the D&C value chain. Shifting to the middle chart. We also continue to act with a sense of urgency to materially improve our cash cost structure in order to get the most value out of every barrel we produce. This focus is evidenced by our first-quarter results where field level costs improved 11% year over year. To achieve this positive rate of change, we have meaningfully reduced our recurring LOE expense across several categories, including chemicals, water disposal, compression, and contract labor. Looking ahead, I expect further improvement. The team is hard at work identifying and capturing additional savings that will generate margin expansion throughout the remainder of the year. Turning to Slide 16. Another asset I'd like to put in the spotlight today is Anadarko Basin, where we are officially back to work in this basin with two operator rigs funded by our joint venture with Dow Chemical. Both Rick and I have long histories with this basin, and literally, it's just right down the road from our corporate headquarters. I'm very impressed with the great improvements that our team has made in the last couple of years. By way of background, in late 2019, we formed this partnership with Dow in a promoted deal where Dow earns half of our interest on 183 undrilled locations in exchange for a $100 million drilling carry. In addition to the benefits of the drilling carry, returns will also improve with targeted up spacing and from midstream incentive rates that will reduce our per unit cost for Wells associated with this drilling JV. When you combine these factors and the continuing operational improvement, these returns will be exceptional. Year-to-date, we have spud eight wells in the liquids-rich core of the play and we are on track to drill up to 30 wells for the full-year 2021, targeting in a mix of Meramec and Woodford opportunities. I have full confidence that the commencement of the Dow JV is the first of many positive steps Devon will take to extract value from the scalable and repeatable resource play. And lastly, on Slide 7, the key message here is that even with the severe winter weather we encountered in the first quarter, we are well on our way to achieving all of our capital objectives for 2021. Looking specifically at the second quarter, we expect the midpoint of oil production to be 288,000 barrels per day, coupled with a capital spend that is slightly elevated due to the timing of Delaware completions and some of the midstream projects. Although the portfolio effect would typically smooth out a stack of events like this, sometimes capital from larger number of pads and projects can fall in one quarter. Following the second quarter, capital will fall back to a more nominal rate. We will continue to work our synergy gains into the capital projections as we work our best path forward. This should continue to offset much of the inflationary pressure in the industry that we will see in a $60-plus environment. And with that, I will now turn the call over to Jeff for additional commentary on our financial results.Jeff Ritenour -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Clay. For today, I will cover the progress we've made on our financial priorities and highlight the next steps in the execution of our financial strategy. Beginning on Slide 5, a key and differentiating part of our financial strategy is our ability and willingness to accelerate the return of cash to shareholders. At Devon, we have a long history of returning cash to shareholders, paying a quarterly dividend for 28 consecutive years that has increased at an average rate of more than 10% per year. To step up our game and build upon this tradition, earlier this year, we implemented our fixed plus variable dividend framework. This cash return strategy is designed to pay a sustainable fixed dividend and evaluate a variable dividend on a quarterly basis. The fix component of this policy is our legacy quarterly dividend that is paid at a rate of $0.11 per share and targeted at a sustainable payout level of approximately 10% of operating cash flow and mid-cycle pricing. The variable dividend is intended to be a supplemental distribution of up to 50% of excess free cash flow beyond the fixed dividend. As Rick touched on earlier, this isn't just an interesting theoretical concept. We are executing on this framework and we paid our initial fixed plus variable dividend in March of this year based on our fourth-quarter results. And with our strong financial performance in the first quarter of this year, the board approved a 13% increase in our fixed-plus-variable dividend to $0.34 per share. Both the fixed quarterly dividend of $0.11 per share and the variable dividend of $0.23 per share are payable on June 30th to shareholders. Turning to Slide 6. In addition to higher dividend payouts, another strategic priority for Devon has been the repayment of debt to further strengthen our investment-grade financial position. So far this year, we've made significant progress toward this initiative by retiring $743 million of outstanding notes. While our balance sheet is in great shape, we're not done making improvements. Today, we acted on the next step in our plan by notifying bondholders of our intent to redeem $500 million of callable 2026 notes in June. In combination, these debt reduction efforts will reduce our annual run rate interest expense by nearly $70 million, further lowering our overall breakeven per barrel. With the execution of our plan, we're on pace to reach 1 times net debt-to-EBITDA target by year end, and these debt retirement actions extend the average maturity of our debt portfolio to approximately 13 years with over 60% of our debt maturing after 2030. Turning to Slide 7. Another area of focus that will enhance Devon's cash flow generating capabilities going forward is the capturing of merger-related synergies. The integration team has done a great job advancing this initiative year-to-date. And as a result, we are now raising our cost savings target to $600 million by year-end 2021. This updated target represents a 4% increase in cost savings compared to our previously issued guidance while we're making strong progress across all categories. This improved outlook is driven by capital efficiency gains and the benefits of enhanced purchasing power in the Delaware Basin. Overall, about 60% of the $600 million of cost savings targets has been incorporated into our full year 2021 outlook, and we have clear line of sight to capture the remaining synergies by year-end. The capturing of these synergies is very material and impactful to Devon, resulted in a PV-10 uplift over the next five years of $2.5 billion or roughly 15% of our market cap. And with that, I'll now turn the call back to Rick for some closing comments.Rick Muncrief -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jeff. Great job. I would like to close by reiterating his key message and that is the integration of the two companies is complete, and the team is delivering on exactly what we promised to do. We have prioritized free cash flow over growth. We have identified and captured cost synergies above and beyond our plan. We have a free cash flow that compares favorably to virtually any other asset class in the entire market we're rewarding shareholders with higher dividends and we've taken some steps to aggressively reduce the debt. Our team is focused and energized in 2021 is shaping up to be an excellent year for Devon. This is just the beginning. Devon's future is very bright. And with that, I will now turn the call back over to Scott for Q&A.Scott Coody -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Rick. We will now open the call to Q&A. [Operator instructions] With that, operator, we'll take your first question. 