  OperatorGood day and welcome to the Bristol Myers Squibb 2021 third-quarter results conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Tim Power, vice president investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Tim Power -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thanks, Kristina and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us for our third-quarter 2021 earnings call. Joining me this morning with prepared remarks are Giovanni Caforio, our board chair and chief executive officer; and David Elkins, our chief financial officer. Also with me for today's call are Chris Boerner, our chief commercialization officer; and Samit Hirawat, our chief medical officer and head of global drug development. You'll note that we posted slides to bms.com and you can use those to follow along with David and Giovanni's remarks. But before we get started, I will read our forward-looking statements. During today's call, we will make statements about the company's future plans and prospects that constitute forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in the company's SEC filings.These forward-looking statements represent our estimates as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any future dates. We specifically disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements, even for estimates change. We'll also focus our comments on our non-GAAP financial measures, which are adjusted to exclude certain specified items. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available at bms.com. And with that, I'll hand it over to Giovanni. 

 



Giovanni Caforio -- Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Tim, and good morning, everyone. I hope that you're all doing well. Now turning to Slide 4. I'm pleased to report a very good third quarter with solid sales growth driven by strong commercial execution and good progress in our pipeline. I'm proud of the performance of our commercial teams, who drive demand growth for our launch products and delivered solid performance of our In-Line products, including REVLIMID, Opdivo, and Eliquis. In our R&D, we're progressing the most promising assets in our pipeline for sustained growth. In the quarter, we advanced our third I-O mechanism with the fixed dose of Relatlimab plus nivo accepted for priority review in the U.S., for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. This is an important development for the I-O franchise and we have additional data readouts for Opdivo on the horizon. From a financial perspective, we reported sales of $11.6 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $2 with growth of 10% and 23%, respectively. I'm encouraged by our results and how they position us for the rest of '21 and for the future. As a result, we are reaffirming our revenue guidance and raising the lower end of our non-GAAP EPS guidance range. Our balance sheet is strong and we continue to pursue a disciplined capital allocation strategy focused on investing in internal and external innovation opportunities.

 



 On the IP front, we are pleased with the decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circle -- Federal Circuit upholding the Eliquis's IP and providing exclusivity until 2028 under existing settlements. This decision confirms our belief in the value of the science behind Eliquis and the underlying IP, protecting its innovation. Overall, I'm extremely pleased with our progress in the quarter. Turning to our execution scorecard on Slide 5. At the start of the year, I laid out this scorecard with the milestones we thought would be important for us to deliver in order to successfully renew our portfolio. The team has worked hard and I'm proud that we're making progress across the board. A number of accomplishments were included on the prior slide, so I won't go through all the details but I want to call out a few highlights here. David will provide more details in his remarks. I'll start with Deucravacitinib. Deucrava has demonstrated a compelling and differentiated profile in two Phase III studies and the oral treatment of choice in psoriasis and is an important asset with significant potential across a number of indications, including psoriatic arthritis, where we have already initiated a Phase III program. Although we did not achieve proof-of-concept in a Phase II study for ulcerative colitis, we're committed to advancing our promising Deucravacitinib Clinical Program in inflammatory bowel disease, including another study for ulcerative colitis, as well as Crohn's disease, in lupus and other immune mediated diseases. We continue to make great progress in our cell therapy franchise and we look forward to presenting the transformed data for Breyanzi in second line DLBCL at ASH. We're excited with the strength of this data, which have the potential to enable our cell therapy franchise to reach a broader set of patients. And we are also looking forward to presenting data from the first Phase II study for milvexian, for VTE prevention in patients undergoing total knee replacement at the American Heart Association conference in a few weeks. Looking at the oral strength of execution so far, I am confident that we are on track to deliver what is required for us to renew our portfolio. Moving to Slide 6. It has been two years since we formed the new Bristol-Myers Squibb. As I reflect on this time, we have already made great progress. We are doing what we set out to do, delivering on the value drivers of the integration, and most importantly, establishing a strong foundation for our company's growth well into the future. Knowing that we face losses of exclusivity in the coming years, I recognize executing well on our multiple launches and continuing to advance our pipeline is particularly important for us. When I reflect on the last two years, I'm pleased on both fronts. We see strong demand for our newly launched products and we are delivering on the promise of our pipeline, including a broadening dataset for our launch products and continuing progress with our next generation of assets, such as milvexian and iberdomide. Our company today is more diversified than ever before with four durable franchises and the financial flexibility to continue to invest in innovation. As we recently announced, we will be hosting an investor event on November 16 in New York City to review our progress over the last two years and further discuss the company's strategy, pipeline, and business opportunities. I look forward to the meeting and I hope you will join us. In closing, we have made significant progress through this period and I would like to thank our global teams who have maintained the focus on delivering for patients. With that, I'll turn it over to David to walk you through the financials. David?David Elkins -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Giovanni, and thank you all for joining our call today. Starting with our top-line performance on Slide 8, we had yet another strong quarter with third-quarter revenues growing double-digits versus prior year, primarily due to demand -- increased demand for our in-line brands but as well as our new product portfolio. So let me shed some light on some of our product performance, starting with Eliquis on Slide 9. Eliquis continues to perform very strongly with global sales up 15% versus prior year. In the U.S., sales grew 18% versus prior year. Demand growth continues to be strong with total prescription growth of 14% versus last year, driven by a large class market share gains and growth in new-to-brand volumes. Sequentially, as usual, sales were impacted by the expected coverage gap liability that occurs in the third and fourth quarters each year. We expect strong new-to-brand share growth to further translate the overall total prescription growth. Internationally, sales grew 12% versus prior year primarily due to demand. Shares continue to increase across all key geographies and continues to rank as the No. 1 OAC in multiple markets with additional room to grow. We remain very pleased with Eliquis' execution around the world and expect to continue to grow Eliquis' share within a growing class. Now moving to Opdivo performance on Slide 10, we are pleased with the continued momentum for the brand with sales growth of 7% versus prior year. In the U.S. sales grew 4% versus last year, primarily driven by uptake in first-line lung cancer and our multiple other new launches this year. And sequentially, we had demand growth of 5%, which was offset by a work-down of 40 million in inventory build we noted in the second quarter. Our commercial teams continued to execute well. We've retained strong positions in core indications such as melanoma and renal and are very pleased with the performance of our newer indications. Outside the U.S., we had another strong quarter with sales up 11% versus last year. Growth was primarily driven by demand for new indications with expanded access in Latin America, Turkey, and Russia. We continue to see strong uptake from our new launches in lung and renal cancer in Germany and Japan with pricing and reimbursement discussions ongoing in other key markets. These launches, together with the recent approvals of first-line gastric now esophageal cancer, are expected to contribute to further growth internationally. Based on positive momentum from our current launches and future potential launches, including first-line esophageal on May of next year, as well as expansion opportunities from clinical trials that we'll read out over the next few years, the promise for Opdivo's continued growth is high. Turning to our In-Line multiple myeloma portfolio on Slide 11, REVLIMID was up 11% globally, primarily driven by demand for triple-based therapies and increasing treatment duration. Pomalyst global sales were up 10% driven by continued demand for triple-based therapies and use in earlier lines. Now moving to our new products on Slide 12, we continue to be very pleased with our new products which generate sales of $344 million in the third quarter. This new diversified portfolio is already annualizing close to $1.5 billion run rate, giving us great confidence that we're on our way to renewing our business with products that are much earlier in their lifecycle. So let's start with Reblozyl, which generated strong sales of a $160 million in the third quarter, up 67% versus prior year. Sales growth in the U.S. was primarily driven by continued demand in the ESA refractory MDS patients, as well as a $20 million to $25 million inventory build. We're very encouraged by the recent NCCN guideline update that now recommends evaluating ESA response sooner at six to eight weeks instead of the previously recommended 12 to 16 weeks. This supports need to monitor and potentially treat new patients earlier in their treatment journey. Additionally, we remain focused on ensuring they received the most appropriate dose for sustained benefit. Outside the U.S., uptake continues to be strong in countries where Reblozyl is launched. Sales were impacted by the usual price review, one year after launch in Germany. We expect to launch in Italy and the Netherlands in Q4 pending reimbursement discussions and in more countries in 2022 to drive additional growth for the brand. Moving to our cell therapies, Abecma and Breyanzi. Demand for Abecma, our first-in-class BCMA CAR T, remains robust. We generate $71 million in the third quarter versus 24 million in the second quarter. Remember that 2Q revenues consisted of only one and a half month of sales having launched in mid-May, so performance this quarter reflects a full quarter of sales. Demand continues to exceed supply and we expect Q4 revenues to be largely similar to Q3. Now moving to our CD19 CAR T Breyanzi, sales in the quarter were $30 million versus $17 million in the prior quarter. Sales increased due to patient demand with physicians recognizing Breyanzi best-in-class profile. We're extremely pleased to have clinically meaningful PFS data in second-line large B-cell lymphoma and look forward to presenting the data at ASH and bringing this treatment to earlier line patients in 2022. Turning to Zeposia, global revenues were $40 million in the quarter driven by multiple sclerosis launch and one-time inventory build in the U.S. The MS launch continues to progress well, where Zeposia remains the S1P of choice in terms of written prescriptions. We continue to focus on establishing Zeposia as not only the S1P of choice but also the oral treatment of choice in MS. Our launch in UC is also progressing well in the U.S.. We're encouraged by the initial uptake and growth in the number of new trialers since launch in June. Our focus is building on volume, establishing demand for this oral biologic-like medicine while broadening access over time. We're also very pleased to have just received CHMP positive opinion in Europe and look forward to making Zeposia available to patients living with UC as soon as possible. Lastly, we're making progress on establishing Onureg and first-line maintenance and AML patients. Onureg generated sales of $21 million in the quarter, primarily driven by increased demand as well as inventory build versus prior quarter. We continue to focus on shaping the new maintenance segment and increasing adoption and patient adherence. Now let's turn our attention over to P&L on Slide 13. We've already covered our strong sales for the quarter, so let me walk you through a few other non-GAAP key line items. Gross margin increase versus prior year primarily due to lower royalty payments. Operating expenses were higher than last year, particularly in R&D due to COVID recovery, but also slightly in MS&A due to investment supporting our launch and pre-launch activities. MS&A versus prior quarter did experience some softness due to the timing of investments that shifted to the fourth quarter. Our Effective tax rate of 14.9% was primarily driven by earnings mix. Overall, non-GAAP EPS increased 23% year over year. Now moving to our balance sheet and capital allocation on Slide 14, our liquidity position remains strong with almost $16 billion in cash and marketable securities, and a strong cash flow from operations of $5.3 billion in the quarter. Our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged with significant financial flexibility to support a balanced approach to capital allocation. Our priorities are to continue to renew and diversify our portfolio through business development, paying down our debt, and returning capital to shareholders. We've executed several business development deals this year, bringing in differentiated early stage assets. Business development remains a top priority as a leading innovation-based company. We have paid down $6 billion in debt year-to-date, and are committed to maintaining our strong investment-grade rating. As it relates to returning capital shareholders, we're committed to growing our dividend subject to board approval and remain opportunistic about share repurchases. We have already purchased 3.5 billion of shares to-date, and we currently have approximately $3 billion remaining in our authorization program. Now, turning to our guidance on Slide 15. Based on the strong performance in the quarter, we reaffirming full-year sales and raising the lower end of our non-GAAP EPS guidance. We continue to expect revenues to increase at the higher end of our guidance and gross margin to be approximately 80%. Moving to operating expenses, we are maintaining our MS&A and R&D guidance for the year. As I mentioned earlier, MS&A, we are expecting higher expenses in the fourth quarter due to timing of investments that shifted by quarter. Additionally, we're updating our tax rate guidance to approximately 16.5% primarily due to earnings mix. All-in-all, I'm pleased with our performance. We had another remarkable quarter for the company and continue to execute well against our plans and to diversify and renew our portfolio. This performance could not have been achieved without the passion and dedication of our employees around the world, and I look forward to providing you future updates on our progress. With that, I will now turn it back over to Tim and Giovanni for Q&A.Tim Power -- Vice President, Investor Relations OK. Thanks David. Kristina, can we go to our first question please? 