  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to AT&T's third-quarter 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] And as a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Amir Rozwadowski, senior vice president, finance and investor relations. Please go ahead.Amir Rozwadowski -- Senior Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our third quarter call. I'm Amir Rozwadowski, Head of investor relations for AT&T. Joining me on the call today are John Stankey, our CEO; and Pascal Desroches, our CFO. Also joining us for the Q&A portion of our call are Jeff McElfresh, the CEO of our communications group; and Jason Kilar, CEO for WarnerMedia. Before we begin, I need to call your attention to our safe harbor statement. It says that some of our comments today may be forward-looking. As such, they're subject to risks and uncertainties described in AT&T's SEC filings.Results may differ materially. Additional information is available on the investor relations website. And as always, our earnings materials are on our website. I also want to remind you that we are in the quiet period for the FCC Spectrum Auction 110. So unfortunately, we can't answer questions about that today. With that, I'll turn the call over to John Stankey. John? 

 



John Stankey -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Amir. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us. I'll be brief because the quarter is largely more of the same. This marks the fifth consecutive quarter of consistent progress since we articulated our simplified business strategy and how we plan to measure our progress going forward. The close of the DIRECTV transaction this quarter is another important step we've completed to reposition AT&T. I acknowledge, this makes for some extra cycles on comparative analysis. And as we continue to do so, there will be fewer moving parts to assess in better visibility and clarity. In the meantime, it's important not to lose sight of the success we're having, deploying capital into our areas of strategic focus. Bottom line, we're accelerating our historical rates of customer growth in Mobility, Fiber and HBO Max, and customer satisfaction is improving across the board with lower churn and higher NPS scores. Mobility is delivering more postpaid phone customers on a rolling 12-month run rate than it has in the prior decade. Our Fiber products are recognized as best-in-class.

 



 As we expand our Fiber footprint, we're delivering a superior service and we're growing our share. We're already nearing the low end of our 2021 guidance for global HBO Max and HBO subscribers, despite our long planned intent to no longer seed customer control through Amazon's channels offering. Additionally, customer growth can be attributed in part to our ability to mine out significant cost savings from our operations and reinvest them back into the business. The results are driving Mobility and Consumer Wireline EBITDA growth that we expect to be complemented by margin expansion as our transformation work matures. We have clear line of sight to achieving at least half of our $6 billion cost savings run rate target by the end of this year, driven by success with a number of initiatives that we believe also will support improving returns in the coming years. Whether they stem from nearly $1 billion of savings from streamlining our field operations, a similar level of savings from changes made to our procurement processes or $0.5 billion of savings from the rationalization of our retail store footprint, our focus on driving out inefficiencies is showing tangible results. These are just a few of the most significant programs underway. More initiatives that we expect will drive incremental savings and operating leverage are in the investment and implementation phase. Finally, as I mentioned, we've closed the DIRECTV transaction and continue to expect the WarnerMedia deal to close by midyear 2022. With these and other dispositions, we monetized or announced plans to monetize more than $55 billion of assets over the past year. The last five quarters have been a period of repositioning our business, while also delivering operational results, without repositioning nearing completion that will afford even more focus on continued execution and improved performance. We're on track to reach our full-year free cash flow guidance in the $26 billion range, and we expect to hit the high end of our adjusted EPS guidance. We're in the early innings of transforming the company and believe that we have significant opportunity ahead of us to expand share in our focus areas and drive better returns, including sustained earnings growth. We continue to strive to earn your confidence one quarter at a time, delivering operating performance and shows our momentum is real and sustainable. Let me now turn it over to Pascal to discuss the details of the quarter. Pascal?Pascal Desroches -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. Before we get to our consolidated results, let's look at the progress in our market focus areas on Slide 5. As John mentioned, we continued our strong customer momentum in the third quarter with 928,000 postpaid phone net adds. That's our best net adds quarter in over 10 years. Customers like the strength of our network and our consistent, simple offers. Gross adds are up, churn is low, and we continue to take share and grow our customer base. Our Fiber base also continues to expand. Broadband revenues grew by more than 7%, and we now have 5.7 million AT&T Fiber customers, with 3.4 million of them on one-gig connections. And we saw a sequential growth in our Fiber net adds with most of those new to AT&T. Let's now look at our HBO Max or HBO global subscribers. As we said last quarter, most of the subscriber additions for the remainder of the year are expected to come from our lower ARPU international base. We've reached nearly 70 million global subscribers, thanks to growth in our international markets. As previously announced, domestic subscribers were down due to our proactive decision to shut down the Amazon wholesale platform. This was partially offset by new wholesale relationships. Retail-subscriber growth slowed down the timing of new content, but we expect retail subscriber growth to accelerate in the fourth quarter due to strong content slate. We have new seasons of success in the Curb Your Enthusiasm debuting, the return of Sex and the City, as well as the much-anticipated premieres of Dune, King Richard and The Matrix: Resurrection. Given our upcoming content slate and expanding global footprint, we expect to end the year at the higher end of our year-end global subscriber target. Now let's turn to Slide 6 for our consolidated financial results. The third quarter results reflect the closing of the DIRECTV transaction after the first month of the quarter. We're a smaller company today than we were at the beginning of the quarter, and that is reflected in our results. Excluding DIRECTV revenues, revenues were up about $1.7 billion or 5%, thanks to growth in our market-focused areas. Gains in Mobility, Warner Media and Consumer Wireline more than offset the clients in Business Wireline and from the disposition of other businesses. Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.87. That's up more than 14% year over year. In addition to merger-amortization adjustments for the quarter, adjustments were made to exclude our proportionate share of DIRECTV intangible amortization, a gain on the sale of Playdemic and the an actuarial gain on benefit plans. When you exclude DIRECTV from both periods, adjusted EBITDA was up 3% year over year, mostly due to growth in Mobility and strong growth at WarnerMedia, reflecting partial recovery from the pandemic and the timing of sports costs. Cash from operations came in at $9.9 billion for the quarter. Spending was up, both year-over-year and sequentially with capex of $4.7 billion and gross capital investments totaling $5.7 billion. Free cash flow was $5.2 billion, inclusive of year-over-year increases of $850 million in capex and $1.7 billion investment in WarnerMedia cash content. Year-to-date, our content investment has increased by more than $4 billion. Additionally, our leverage position also benefited from $10 billion in asset monetization in the quarter, including our DIRECTV-TPG transaction. Let's now look at our segment operating results, starting with our Communication business on Slide 7. Our Mobility business continues to gain steam. Revenues were up 7% with service revenues growing 4.6%. Postpaid phone churn remained at record low levels, and we had record postpaid phone growth. Prepaid also continued to be a solid performer for us, especially our Cricket brand. We added 249,000 prepaid phones in the quarter. Prepaid phone churn is less than 3%, with Cricket churn even lower. Mobility EBITDA is up nearly $300 million or 3.6% year-over-year, driven by growth in service revenues and transformation savings. We expect that growth to accelerate in the fourth quarter. This growth came even with increased volumes, 3G shutdown costs of nearly $200 million, higher costs associated with the return of the iPhone launch into the third quarter and without a material return in international roaming. We expect similar quarterly 3G shutdown costs through the first quarter of 2022. Business Wireline continues to deliver consistent margins in the high 30s and solid EBITDA. The business did see some difficult year-over-year comparison, given pandemic-related benefits experienced last year. We have been very aggressive in proactively rationalizing our portfolio of low-margin products. This creates incremental pressure on our near-term revenues. But at the same time, it allows us to focus on our core network and transport services products. It will take several quarters for us to work through this initiative. But as we lap the beginning of this process that began late last year, we should see improving revenue trends in Business Wireline. Our Fiber growth was solid. We had our highest Fiber gross adds ever, and we continue to win share wherever we have fiber. We added 289,000 Fiber customers in the quarter, and more than 70% of Fiber net adds are new AT&T broadband customers, and this gives us great confidence as we continue to build out our fiber footprint. Last quarter, we reached a major inflection point in our Consumer Wireline business, where broadband revenue growth now surpasses legacy declines. Total Consumer Wireline revenues are up again this quarter, growing 3.4%. This quarter also reached an inflection point on broadband profit as EBITDA grew 3.8%. We expect sequential EBITDA growth in the fourth quarter, but it will be a tougher year-over-year comparison due to a onetime pandemic-related benefit in last year's fourth quarter. Let's move to WarnerMedia results, which are on Slide 8. WarnerMedia revenues were up 14%, led by strong DTC growth and content licensing. Direct-to-Consumer subscription revenues grew about 25%, reflecting the continued success of HBO Max. Content and other revenues were up 32%, reflecting higher TV licensing and the recovery of TV production and theatrical releases. Advertising revenues were down nearly 12%, mostly due to the timing of sports. You may recall that the prior year third quarter included the restart of the NBA Season and the playoffs, which returned to a more traditional schedule this year. This lowered sports cost in the quarter, which helped WarnerMedia grow EBITDA by 13.5%. The third quarter also included the impact of more than $200 million in DIRECTV advertising revenue sharing costs. With the close of the DIRECTV transaction, WarnerMedia continues to represent and sell DIRECTV's advertising inventory and now compensates DIRECTV through a revenue-share arrangement. This revenue share is now recorded as an expense to WarnerMedia. We launched HBO Max in Latin America late June and have had incredible success. And next week, we are launching new international markets in Spain and the Nordic region, with more new markets to come in 2022. Now before we get to your questions, just a few words about guidance. Three quarters into the year, we feel good about customer momentum and where we stand relative to our guidance provided last quarter. With our strong performance, we now expect full year adjusted EPS to be at the high end of our previous guidance of low- to mid-single-digit growth range. And that's with significant costs expected to be incurred in launching HBO Max in Europe. Additionally, we expect more than $350 million of advertising sharing costs associated with WarnerMedia's new advertising sharing arrangement with DIRECTV as well as continued costs associated with shutting down our 3G network. Also keep in mind, last year's fourth quarter benefited from the advertising associated with the U.S. presidential election. And as mentioned earlier, we are on track with our free cash flow target of around $26 billion as well. In addition to the fourth quarter being a traditionally stronger free cash flow quarter, we expect the FirstNet reimbursement of approximately $1 billion, lower year-over-year cost from the iPhone launch moving up to the third quarter this year and DIRECTV cash distribution of approximately $800 million. Amir, that's our presentation. We're now ready for the Q&A.Amir Rozwadowski -- Senior Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations Thank you, Pascal. Operator, we're ready to take the first question. 