  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Match Group first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the call over to Bill Archer, head of investor relations and corporate development.Bill Archer -- Head of Investor Relations and Corporate Development Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. This call will be led by CEO, Shar Dubey; and CFO and COO, Gary Swidler. They will make a few brief remarks, and then we'll open it up for questions. Before we start, I need to remind everyone that during this call, we may discuss our outlook and future performance. These forward-looking statements may be preceded by words such as we expect, we believe, we anticipate, or similar statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and our actual results could differ materially from the views expressed today. Some of these risks have been set forth in our earnings release and our periodic reports filed with the SEC. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Shar.Shar Dubey -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Bill. Good morning, and thank you for joining the call today. On our last call in Feb, I made a comment that this past year has been remarkable for Match Group in many ways, even though the broader world has been a bit disorienting at times. And coming out of this first quarter, the world is in a very different place than the beginning of the year. Our business is not immune to the macroeconomic headwinds such as the war in Ukraine, the strengthening U.S. dollar against foreign currencies at levels we haven't seen in a while, and lingering variants of COVID-19. And despite it all, our business grew 20% in revenue in the first quarter of 2022, with strong growth across the portfolio. It is this strength in our core business that reminds me what makes our position in the online dating category so unique and resilient. Online dating is not an overnight fad. It is a category and a business model that has built and grown steadily over time. This is not serving a fickle user need. I often say this, if you look at Maslow's hierarchy of human needs, right above food, shelter and security is love and relationship. The need for relationships and dating is not going to go away. The market opportunity for -- ahead for dating is massive. Over 700 million connected singles around the world are eligible to use our products. And only half of the eligible TAM in the Western markets of U.S. and Western Europe have ever tried a dating app. And that number is much lower across the rest of the world. And while we have grown users every year that we have been a public company, there is still so much more to go do. There's really no reason why people who are single shouldn't be using dating products. But people have broken into this category steadily but slowly. Once they try it, though, they not only use multiple apps at a time, that number is around 3.5 on an average in the U.S. today, they also keep coming back when their life circumstances change and they need us again. So I remain incredibly bullish on the category as a whole and the opportunities still ahead. Now back to our current business. Even with all the macro uncertainty, it is our job to execute. And by and large, we are on schedule with what we planned to deliver in 2022. Tinder, beyond solid 18% revenue growth in Q1. The team continues to make progress on its product road map, whether that is adding new experiences into Explore or innovating on new monetization features. Our 2022 plan for Hinge to expand internationally beyond English-speaking markets remains intact. They will be launching in Germany and DACH markets before the end of the second quarter and a few more markets before the end of the year. And Hyperconnect continues to build momentum, both with its current products and with the integrations its technology is bringing into our portfolio. Finally, we are encouraged to see more and more green shoots around the globe as COVID fears continue to ease. Seeing improvements in markets like Japan coming out of their most recent quasi-state of emergency restrictions has us cautiously optimistic about several trends we are seeing. And before I hand it over to Gary to provide more color on the quarter, I want to address the other news. After 16 years of an incredible journey of building this category and this business, I feel privileged to be able to step down from day-to-day operational role and have the time and flexibility to focus on the next chapter of my life, which I'm hoping will be the give back chapter, and allows me to do things I've wanted to do for a while but didn't have the time and headspace to. As I said earlier, the opportunity before the company is immense. The vast majority of single people around the world have yet to try dating apps. While Match has steadily grown users, payer penetration, and revenue per payers, only a small mid-teens percent of our nearly 100 million active users are payers today. And they pay less than the cost of a cup of coffee a week. There is ample runway for our brands to continue to drive growth across all of these three metrics. And there remains a huge value to entry into the category, both in the terms -- both in terms of the amount of trust and safety investment needed, but also the unique characteristics of the network effects of a successful dating pool, where balance of gender, age, other demographics, geography, and intent all matter in order to produce successful outcomes for users. And there is no one better positioned to continue to capture this important opportunity than us, which brings me to Bernard and why I think he is the right next leader of the company. Bernard has a proven track record as a business, product, and people leader, with 20 years of experience in mobile entertainment and gaming. Not only was he instrumental in Zynga's turnaround and expansion, he drove player engagement and monetization strategies into one of the best live services in mobile today and helped Zynga's -- grow Zynga's market cap by four times. He has operated a business that's very similar to ours: multi-brand, multi-platform, global markets, different life cycle brands and has driven growth successfully, both organically as well as some very successful acquisitions. He has dealt with similar challenges as ours, from regulations to App Store to talent recruitment. He has a phenomenal reputation, deeply cares about products, people, and culture. For the last six years, he's been working on the mission of connecting people through games. Now he gets to build on our mission of connecting single people through more fun digital experiences in their quest for dates, love, relationships, and marriages. I feel very good about the future of this company. With Bernard's energy, fresh thinking and mobile consumer experience, combined with over 70 years of dating category and business experience among the Match Group leaders and brand CEOs we have, I'm ever so excited about the next phase of this company and the category at large. Also, I'm not going anywhere. I will stay on the board, continue as an advisor to the company, especially to be able to focus on areas of the business I actually love: product, strategy, solving customer problems. Finally, I want to thank all my colleagues at Match Group, Gary and the rest of the management team, the board, and you all for your support through this 16-year journey. I came to this country alone 30 years ago in search of opportunities and a richer set of experiences. This journey has far exceeded all my expectations. Thank you. With that, I will hand over to Gary.Gary Swidler -- Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer Thanks, Shar. I'm disappointed this will be our last earnings call together, but look forward to having BK join the company, in time for our next call in early August. Turning to the business. We had a strong Q1, with total revenue of $799 million up 20% year over year, following a 20%-plus year-over-year quarter in Q4 as well. In Q1, the U.S. dollar continued to strengthen against a number of global currencies, including the euro and the yen, which led to $26 million of year-over-year FX headwinds, excluding Hyperconnect. On an FX-neutral basis, Q1 total revenue would have been $825 million, up 24% year over year. Our direct revenue grew 20% year over year. It grew 16% in the Americas, 14% in Europe, and 38% in APAC and others. We weathered the effects of the omicron spike in the Americas and Europe fairly well. We did continue to feel the effects of rising COVID cases in Asia, especially Japan, although we've seen major improvement in that market recently following the lifting of restrictions. European performance was impacted by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which reduced revenue in Russia, Ukraine, and several other nearby countries. There was a modest impact on our performance from the war in Q1. We estimate a roughly $10 million negative impact per quarter on our revenue as a result of the invasion moving forward. Total payers were 16.3 million, an increase of 13% from the prior-year quarter. Payers were up 7% year over year in the Americas, 11% in Europe, and 34% in APAC and Other, which was aided by the acquisition of Hyperconnect. Tinder payer additions were strong, while some of our more established brands in the Americas detracted from our overall payer growth. RPP was up 6% year over year to $16 in Q1. RPP was up a solid 8% in the Americas, 2% in Europe, and 3% in APAC and Other. The effects of FX are visible in the Europe and APAC RPP numbers. On an FX-neutral basis, RPP would have been up 9% and 10%, respectively, in Europe and APAC, and others. Tinder performed strongly in the quarter, delivering direct revenue of $441 million, up 18% year over year. Tinder had payers growth of 17% year over year, adding 1.5 million payers to 10.7 million, an RPP growth of 1% year over year in the quarter, which again shows the impact of FX. All other brands grew direct revenue 22% year over year in Q1, driven by 14% RPP growth and 7% payers growth. Hinge, BLK, and Chispa contributed to drive the growth, and Hyperconnect contributed as well. Some of our established brands in the Americas saw pressure on payers in the quarter, a portion of which was attributable to a challenge to find marketing opportunities that met our ROI thresholds. There were a couple of other specific trends as well. At Plenty of Fish, which tends to serve a lower-income demographic, users had benefited from COVID-related government stimulus in Q1 2021, but we saw some relative payer softness in the early goings of 2022. The Match brand saw some payer impacts as it tested a softer paywall model in Q1. This is a short-term headwind that should be long-term beneficial as we refine the new model. Hyperconnect contributed just over $50 million of total revenue in the quarter, generally as we expected. The business demonstrated continued improved performance, consistent with the trends we saw at the tail end of last year despite some impact of the Ukraine war on its Turkish business. Hyperconnect's revenue also continued to be significantly impacted by FX, especially against the Turkish lira and the yen. Indirect revenue reached $15 million in the quarter, up 19% year over year as the advertising market remains strong. Our brands have become more appealing to advertisers in the current advertising landscape. Q1 operating income grew 10% year over year to $208 million for margins of 26%, and adjusted operating income grew 19% year over year to $273 million for margins of 34%. Overall expenses, including SBC expense, grew 24% year over year in Q1, with about 60% of the total increase resulting from the acquisition of Hyperconnect. Excluding the impact of Hyperconnect, cost of revenue grew 17% year over year, primarily due to higher App Store fees, and represented 28% of total revenue. Sales and marketing spend, excluding Hyperconnect, decreased $8 million year over year as we continue to show spending discipline in a relatively frothy marketing environment. And we spent cautiously in markets that did not show sufficient post-COVID recovery momentum. Sales and marketing spend was down three points year over year as a percentage of total revenue to 18%. G&A expense, excluding Hyperconnect, rose 7% year over year. G&A comprised 13% of revenue, consistent with the prior year, and was up $6 million year over year as we continue to spend on critical initiatives like user safety. Product development costs, excluding Hyperconnect, grew 28% year over year and were 10% of revenue, up one point as we increased headcount at Tinder and Hinge. Our gross leverage declined to 3.6 times trailing adjusted operating income, and our net leverage was 2.7 times at the end of Q1. We ended the quarter with $921 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments on hand. We still expect to pay $441 million to settle the former Tinder employee litigation and all related claims and arbitrations from cash on hand. Our board has also authorized a $12.5 million share buyback plan. For Q2, we expect total revenue for Match Group of $800 million to $810 million, which would represent 13% to 14% year-over-year growth. We expect this to be driven by double-digit year-over-year payers growth and year-over-year RPP growth in the single digits despite the continued FX headwinds. We anticipate approximately $35 million of year-over-year FX headwinds in Q2, meaning that total revenue growth would be more than 5 points higher on an FX-neutral basis. This is more than an additional point of year-over-year FX impact than we had expected at our last earnings call. Additionally, the negative impacts of the war in Ukraine are shaving another point of revenue growth. Excluding the effects of FX and of the war, our year-over-year growth outlook would be 19% to 20%. We eliminated age-based pricing discounts at Tinder late in Q1, which will impact Tinder payer growth in Q2, but revenue should be relatively unaffected. Additionally, Tinder payers will be negatively impacted by the loss of payers in Russia and Ukraine. We anticipate about 200,000 fewer payers in Q2 as a result of the age-based pricing change and the war. We expect Q2 RPP growth will be impacted by the continued FX pressures. We expect Hinge will remain on its growth trajectory and deliver strong revenue growth again in Q2. Hinge is on pace to expand into Germany, its first non-English-speaking geography in Q2. We believe that performance at Hyperconnect is improving, but expect that Q2 revenue will be impacted by the Ramadan holiday, which typically impacts Q2 results in many of Hyperconnect's markets in the Middle East. FX headwinds also continue to impact Hyperconnect, especially in Turkey and Japan. We expect adjusted operating income of $285 million to $290 million in Q2, representing margins of about 36% at the midpoint of the ranges. Recall that Hyperconnect reduces our margins by over two points. Our Q2 outlook assumes that we implement Google's change in policy to require use of their payment system as of June 1st. We estimate a negative impact of $6 million in Q2, though we need to see actual results of implementation of the policy change to be sure of the precise impacts. We are currently evaluating our legal and other options to avoid the significant disruptive effect their policy change will have on our consumers. Taking into account the challenging operating environment, including the FX impacts and the war in Ukraine, we now expect to be closer to the bottom end of our previously stated 15% to 20% year-over-year revenue growth range for the full year 2022. We expect a four-point year-over-year FX impact and a one-point impact of the war in Ukraine, meaning that growth would be five points higher absent those two factors. But things have been changing very quickly. At the moment, for the full year, we are estimating approximately $40 million more in year-over-year FX effects than we had at the time of our last earnings call three months ago, given the recent record-setting lows of the euro and yen against the U.S. dollar. It is clear there is a lot of uncertainty, the macro negatives but also potential positives, particularly around post-COVID reopening around the globe. This makes forward visibility challenging. Variability has clearly increased, and the trends could change meaningfully again over the next three months. We'll update again in August once we see what kind of summer of love we get. Our business serves a fundamental need for human connection. The demand for our products is unwavering and presents ample opportunity for future growth. While the macro environment poses some temporary challenges, our longer-term prospects remain bright. Our growth will continue to be driven by our innovative and broad portfolio of products, which is best in class at providing technologies to enable these important social connections. Moreover, we share knowledge across our portfolio, which enhances our successes and limits mistakes. We're disciplined on costs and very nimble, able to adjust marketing budgets on short notice. As such, we have margins and cash flow that many, if not all, of our peers, would envy. We've shown an ability to grow consistently and to show strong profitability and cash flow. We're ready for whatever comes next and expect to continue to deliver strong growth and profitability for our shareholders. With that, I'll ask the operator to open the line for questions. 