
OperatorGood day everyone. Welcome to VeriSign's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. David Atchley Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Treasurer. Please go ahead sir.David Atchley -- Investor Relations

 



Thank you operator. Welcome to VeriSign's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Joining me are Jim Bidzos Executive Chairman and CEO; Todd Strubbe President and COO; and George Kilguss Executive Vice President and CFO. This call and presentation are being webcast from the Investor Relations website which is available under About VeriSign on verisign.com. There you will also find our earnings release. At the end of this call the presentation will be available on that site. And within a few hours the replay of the call will be posted. Financial results in our earnings release are unaudited and our remarks include forward-looking statements that are subject to the risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our documents filed with the SEC specifically the most recent report on Form 10-K.VeriSign does not update financial performance or guidance during the quarter unless it is done through a public disclosure. The financial results in today's call and the matters we will be discussing today include GAAP results and two non-GAAP measures used by VeriSign adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow. GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation information is appended to the slide presentation which can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website available after this call. Jim and George will provide some prepared remarks. And afterwards we will open the call for your questions.With that I would like to turn the call over to Jim.D. James Bidzos -- Chairman Of The Board And Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks David and good afternoon everyone. I'm pleased to report another solid quarter of operational and financial performance for VeriSign. During the second quarter we saw continued demand for our domain names including year-over-year growth in new registrations from some of our foreign geographies. During the second quarter we processed 11.7 million new registrations and the domain name base increased by 2.59 million names. At the end of June the domain name base in.com and.net totaled $170.6 million consisting of 157 million names for.com and 13.6 million names for.net with a year-over-year growth rate of 5.2%. Although renewal rates are not fully measurable until 45 days after the end of the quarter we believe that the renewal rate for the second quarter of 2021 will be approximately 75.3%. This preliminary rate compares to 72.8% achieved in the second quarter of 2020 and 76% last quarter. As we look at full year 2021 we now expect a domain name base growth rate of between 4.7% and 6%. This range reflects the strength we continue to observe in new additions to the base and our outlook for the balance of the year.During the quarter we continued to deliver solid financial results while maintaining investing in and evolving our critical infrastructure and complying with the high operational standards required by our ICANN agreements. Our critical infrastructure enables us to reliably and accurately provide the DNS navigation service which people around the world depend on the commerce education healthcare and person-to-person connection. Just last week we marked 24 years of uninterrupted availability of our. com and.net domain name resolution system. Our financial and liquidity position remained stable with $1.12 billion in cash cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the quarter. Share repurchases during the second quarter totaled $172 million for 797000 shares.At quarter end $737 million remained available and authorized under the current share repurchase program which has no expiration. We continually evaluate the overall liquidity and investing needs of the business and consider the best uses for our cash including potential share repurchases. Regarding.web on May 20 a final decision was issued in the independent review process or IRP. The final decision rejected Afilias' petition to nullify the results of the.web auction and rejected Afilias' request to be awarded.web. Also as we had requested the final decision directed ICANN's Board of Directors to review the objections including objections as to Afilias' conduct and to make a determination on the delegation of.web.After the final decision was issued however Afilias filed an application requesting that the IRP panel interpret and amend its final decision. We believe Afilias' application is without merit and expects the panel to we expect the panel to rule on it in the fourth quarter of 2021. Thereafter we expect ICANN's Board will proceed consistent with the final decision and it will make a determination on the delegation of.web. The updated guidance we are providing today does not include revenue or expenses related to.web.

 



And now I'd like to turn the call over to George.George Kilguss III -- Executive Vice President And Chief Financial OfficerThanks Jim and good afternoon everyone. For the quarter ended June 30 2021 the company generated revenue of $329 million up 4.8% from the same quarter in 2020 and delivered operating income of $213 million up 3% from $207 million in the same quarter a year ago. Operating expense totaled $116 million compared to $113 million last quarter and $108 million in the second quarter a year ago. The year-over-year increase in operating expense is primarily a result of incremental and continued investment in our operational infrastructure and personnel. The operating margin in the quarter was 64.7% compared to 65.8% for the same quarter a year ago. Net income totaled $148 million compared to $152 million a year earlier which produced diluted earnings per share of $1.31 in the second quarter this year compared to $1.32 for the same quarter last year.During the quarter the company redeemed and favorably refinanced its $750 million 4.25% senior notes due in 2023 through the issuance of new $750 million 2.7% senior notes which mature in June 2031. We are pleased with the results of this refinancing which will result in interest expense savings of over $14 million annually for the company. As part of the refinancing we wrote off $2.1 million of unamortized debt issuance costs on the 2023 notes. Operating cash flow for the second quarter was $143 million and free cash flow was $125 million compared with $215 million and $204 million respectively for the second quarter of 2020. The year-over-year difference in operating cash flow primarily relates to cash taxes from a combination of higher cash taxes this year as well as last year's second quarter operating cash flow benefiting from lower cash flow tax payments due to the permitted deferral of approximately $52 million of U.S. federal tax payments until the third quarter of 2020.I will now discuss our updated full year 2021 guidance. Revenue is now expected to be in the range of $1.322 to $1.331 billion. This narrowed and increased revenue range forecast reflects the updated domain name base growth rate expectation of between 4.7% and 6% that Jim mentioned earlier. The operating margin is now expected to be between 64.25% and 65%. This guidance range reflects our expectation of incremental and continued investment in our operational infrastructure and personnel in 2021. Interest expense and nonoperating income net is now expected to be an expense of between $83 million to $87 million. This reflects lower interest expense following the refinancing that was completed during the second quarter. Capital expenditures are still expected to be between $55 million and $65 million. The GAAP effective tax rate is still expected to be between 20% and 23%. We expect the cash tax rate for 2021 to also be within the same guidance range. In summary VeriSign continued to demonstrate sound financial performance during the second quarter and we look forward to continuing our focused execution in 2021.Now I'll turn the call back to Jim for his closing remarks.D. James Bidzos -- Chairman Of The Board And Chief Executive OfficerThank you George. We continued our work to protect grow and manage the business while continuing our focus on providing long-term value to our shareholders. Before we open the call for your questions I'd like to touch on some other things we're doing at VeriSign. I've updated you on previous earnings calls on our commitment to responsible corporate citizenship in particular under our VeriSign Cares program. In recent months we've expanded our work to help those affected by the COVID-19 pandemic in a number of ways including alleviating food and security caused by COVID-related economic hardship in areas where we have a footprint providing medical and other relief in India where the pandemic took a significant turn for the worse earlier this year and our ongoing and growing efforts to help those jobs or careers have been affected by COVID to retrain and pivot to new careers in the tech industry. We've also kept our focus on the area of equity and justice both working with existing partners and adding new ones. You can read more about all of these initiatives in the new section we added to our investor website this quarter on our ESG work.And now we'll open the call to your questions. Operator we're ready for the first question.