  OperatorGood morning. My name is Mary Sara, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Merck & Co second-quarter 2021 conference call. [Operator instructions] Thank you. I would now like to turn the call over to Peter Dannenbaum, VP, investor relations. Please go ahead.Peter Dannenbaum -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Mary, and good morning. Welcome to Merck's second-quarter 2021 conference call. With me today are Rob Davis, our chief executive officer; Dr. Dean Li, president of Merck Research Labs; Frank Clyburn, president of human health; and Caroline Litchfield, chief financial officer. Before we get started, I'd like to point to a few items. You will see that we have items in our GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs, and certain other items. You should note that we have excluded these from our non-GAAP results and provided a reconciliation in our press release. I would like to remind you that some of the statements that we make during today's call may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provision of the U.S.Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If our underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our SEC filings, including Item 1A and the 2020 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. Our SEC filings, today's earnings release, and an investor presentation with highlights of our results are all posted on merck.com. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Rob. 

 



Rob Davis -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Peter, and good morning, everyone. I'm deeply honored to speak to you today in my new role as CEO. Merck is a special company, and I'm fortunate to be surrounded by talented and dedicated colleagues who are intently focused on bringing important life-enhancing and life-saving medicines and vaccines to people and animals around the world. This long-standing and unwavering commitment to our mission is real, is tangible, and is what drives us to perform every day. The prioritization of investment in research and development under Ken's leadership and the focus of resources behind key growth drivers has put us in a position of strength that I intend to build upon. As I consider Merck's future, I continue to believe investment in research and development with patients at the center of everything we do is core to who Merck is and is our best path to sustainable ongoing success and value creation. However, how we go about both delivering the best external and internal scientific opportunities, as well as how we bring those innovations to patients, must evolve. As I transition to the role of CEO, I solicited candid feedback from colleagues and external stakeholders. What I heard reaffirms my convictions. There's a broad agreement that investment in R&D should remain our highest strategic priority. Employees are confident that we're on the right path. We have rebuilt and reinvigorated our discovery research engine and have a growing and robust pipeline.

 



 We're successfully executing on clinical development, and we're delivering strong commercial growth across both our human and animal health businesses now, and will continue to do so well into the future. While we are on the right path, we need to work with more speed, urgency, and agility, more closely matching the pace of change in the broader environment. We need to accelerate the delivery of our innovations to the patients who need them, and to be leaner, nimbler and more digitally enabled. We need to leverage the scale and reach we have as a global biopharmaceutical leader, while also embracing a commitment to evolve to address new challenges. And we need to move with focus and intentionality, which is a priority for both me and my management team. I know that it's not about promising, it's about performing. Actions speak louder than words. With that understanding, I pledge to do all I can to ensure that Merck remains a global biopharmaceutical leader long into the future, delivering value to current and future patients and growth and value for our shareholders. Now turning to the quarter, we had very good performance with strong growth. Our results demonstrate that the impact of the pandemic on our business is lessening. Patient access to healthcare providers has improved, and we expect continued strong growth in the remainder of the year. We're also making meaningful clinical advancements which Dean will speak to you in just a few moments. Our seamless execution during a period in which we successfully completed a complex spin-off without business interruption underwent leadership transitions and delivered accelerated growth only increases my confidence in what our organization can achieve in the future. Organon is now an independent company, an important milestone in our company's history. And this transaction is a meaningful catalyst to Merck becoming a more focused, more efficient, and faster-growing company. Let me spend a moment speaking about KEYTRUDA, which again experienced very strong growth this quarter. I'm confident that KEYTRUDA will continue to be a foundational cancer therapy and achieved strong growth for years to come. We are a leader in immuno-oncology and are determined to leverage this and to sustained success. We are rapidly advancing a diverse set of oncology assets, many of which we highlighted in our recent ASCO investor presentation. Across our oncology portfolio, we expect over 90 potential new indications by 2028, more than tripling our current base. We have a wide array of clinical partnerships, providing valuable insights into the biology of disease and into important potential external innovation. With our expanding oncology portfolio outside of KEYTRUDA, we will extend our leadership in cancer long into the future. I also strongly believe we will successfully navigate the eventual KEYTRUDA loss of exclusivity given the breadth of opportunity in areas both within as well as outside of oncology. Internally, our leaders are intensely focused on this period and efforts are underway. Externally, I understand the importance of providing investors with increased transparency into the breadth of opportunities we see in our pipeline that will help us do this. As we've done recently in highlighting islatravir, our broader HIV portfolio, and our next-generation oncology assets, we are planning deep-dive investor events with our scientific and commercial leaders focused on other areas of our pipeline that we believe are underappreciated yet hold great promise such as our suite of vaccine candidates, our cardiometabolic assets, as well as others. Business development plays an important role, and we are putting an increased emphasis on ensuring we are appropriately aggressive in accessing the best external science. Executing value-enhancing BD is a top priority, and we intend to add to our pipeline through acquisitions, partnerships, licensing deals, and collaborations. We will be unbounded by therapeutic area, though we are mindful on the need to have a balanced portfolio over time. We'll seek new products, modalities, and platforms that allow us to establish beachheads in important areas. Our recent acquisition of Pandion and its potentially foundational immunology asset is a good example of this. We will look at both early and late-stage opportunities and we have the financial flexibility to consider deals of all sizes, particularly given the $9 billion distribution from the Organon spin-off. And given our strong operational momentum, we are most interested in transactions that are easily integrated and less disruptive, where value is principally derived by the introduction of innovative new products that address patient needs instead of the cost synergies. Before I turn the call over to Frank to discuss second-quarter performance on our human health business, I want you to know that I appreciate and applaud the increasing societal and investor demand and corporation stack responsibly. In fact, I believe our strong performance across environmental, social, and governance issues has and will continue to create sustainable value for all of our stakeholders. Merck has a long track record and history of strong corporate citizenship, and I'm committed to remaining a leader in this area. With that, let me turn the call over to Frank.Frank Clyburn -- President of Human Health Thanks, Rob. Good morning. As Rob highlighted, our Human Health business continues to regain momentum, and we achieved 18% growth in the quarter, excluding the impact of exchange. Across our business, we've been engaging and investing with urgency to encourage more normal levels of physician office visits, oncology screenings, and vaccination rates, including catch-up from misdoses. The agility demonstrated by our teams around the world to quickly reallocate resources to drive these patient activation programs has benefited our largely physician-administered portfolio. In the United States, we are encouraged that wellness visits and surgical procedures have returned to more normal levels. And in oncology, we're seeing screening rates continue to improve. We're confident that these favorable trends and the strong underlying demand for our products will drive accelerated underlying business momentum in the second half of the year. Now I'll turn to the second-quarter performance of our key brands. My comments will be on an exchange basis. In oncology, KEYTRUDA sales grew 20% to $4.2 billion, reflecting continued strong global demand. In the United States, KEYTRUDA continues to demonstrate strong growth, and over the course of the pandemic has increased its market share of new patients within the immuno-oncology class. KEYTRUDA also maintains its leadership position in lung cancer, capturing 8 out of 10 eligible new patients. We continue to see strong growth across all key tumors, including renal cell carcinoma, bladder, adjuvant melanoma, and MSI high indication. Additionally, we are off to a very strong start with our launch of KEYNOTE-355 in metastatic triple-negative breast cancer, and we look forward to adding overall survival to the label. We're also excited by the recent approval and upcoming launch of KEYNOTE-522 in the neoadjuvant and adjuvant setting. Outside the United States, growth continues to be driven by lung cancer indications, and the ongoing launches in head and neck cancer and renal cell carcinoma. LYNPARZA grew 34% in the quarter and remains the leading PARP inhibitor. Growth continues to be driven by approvals of recent indications, and we look forward to a potential future launch in adjuvant breast cancer based on the OlympiA data presented at ASCO this year. LENVIMA grew 15% in the quarter, reflecting increased demand in hepatocellular carcinoma following the NRDL listing in China. We are also excited to launch the recently approved combination of LENVIMA plus KEYTRUDA in endometrial carcinoma. And in the near future to potentially launch in renal cell carcinoma based on KEYNOTE-581. Our vaccines portfolio recovered sharply due to the return to more normal level of wellness visits. GARDASIL had a very strong quarter, growing 78%. In the United States, higher sales were driven by a recovery from the negative impact of last year's lockdowns. Outside the United States, growth was driven by increased demand in China. Sales also benefited from increased supply due to improved manufacturing, which I'll provide additional details on in a moment. Our hospital business continued its recovery, BRIDION sales grew 67% year over year, driven by increased surgeries as patient access to hospitals improved from last year. Turning to our outlook. The recovery we saw in the quarter gives us confidence that we will have a very strong second half resulting from both market recovery and strong commercial execution. Over the quarter, Merck quickly pivoted its focus and resources to patient activation campaigns to ensure that patients are putting their health first and recognize the importance of returning to physicians' offices for screenings, early detection, and routine visits. Our efforts in partnership with public health constituent groups paired with the continued rollout of COVID-19 vaccinations, has resulted in meaningful improvements in patients accessing healthcare providers. In adolescents, we've seen more than one-third of teens in the United States vaccinated against COVID-19 with at least one dose. We assume that these rapidly growing vaccination rates and continued commercial execution will help to drive a near-normal back-to-school season. Merck has also shown increased agility and efficiency across our organization, and importantly, we've made improvements that will enable meaningful future growth. Of note, we expect GARDASIL to significantly benefit from increases in productivity across our supply chain, which will allow us to fulfill demand that we were previously unable to supply. Furthermore, as global demand for GARDASIL continues to outpace supply, our teams have been working to ensure we have the right regulatory approvals and lead time to appropriately allocate doses to areas of increased demand, particularly as the pandemic continues to force lockdowns in many geographies. These improvements alone will drive very strong sequential and year-over-year growth for GARDASIL in the back half of the year, especially in ex-U.S. markets, such as China. In oncology, we're encouraged by the recovery we've seen to date and our overall performance throughout the pandemic. We remain confident in the underlying demand for our broad and innovative portfolio, including KEYTRUDA, LYNPARZA, LENVIMA, and if approved, belzutifan and expect to drive strong and sustained growth across key tumor types and stages of disease. Overall, the improvements in patient and access we are seeing in major markets give us increased confidence as we look to the second half of the year. Before I conclude, I would like to mention the strong execution of our commercial colleagues around the world that enabled our company to drive strong growth in the first half of the year, all the while, we're working to successfully complete the spin-off of Organon. We are confident that the spin-off results in meaningful benefits to the commercial organization, including the ability to drive even stronger growth through more focused commercial execution. To close, our business has regain momentum and we are well-positioned to achieve strong growth in the third and fourth quarters. Our portfolio is rebounded by strength and demonstrated not only as resiliency but its value to patients globally. The strong recovery we saw in the quarter underscores our confidence in the underlying demand for our innovative medicines and vaccines, and we look forward to a return to robust long-term demand-driven growth. With that, I'll turn the call over to Caroline.Caroline Litchfield -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Frank. Good morning. Our business delivered meaningful growth in the quarter driven by strong underlying demand for products across our growth pillars and the continued recovery of the business as patient access improves. As we exit the quarter we are confident that our position of financial and operational strength will enable us to drive long-term revenue growth and meaningful margin expansion, creating value for our shareholders by delivering on our mission to improve the health and wellness of people and animals worldwide. Now turning to our second-quarter results, which reflects Merck on a continuing operations basis. Total company revenue were $11.4 billion, an increase of 22% or 19%, excluding the positive impact of foreign exchange. Further adjusting for the estimated impact of the pandemic, total revenues grew 8% year over year, evidence of the underlying strength of our business. The remainder of my comments will be on an ex exchange basis. As Frank highlighted, our Human Health business showed improving momentum, growing 18% or 6% when adjusted for the estimated impact of the pandemic. Animal Health had an outstanding quarter, increasing 27% driven by very strong global demand across companion animal and livestock, which increased 38% and 20%, respectively. Animal health sales grew 19% when adjusted for the estimated pandemic impact. In companion animal growth was driven by higher global demands for vaccines as well as parasiticides including the BRAVECTO line of product. Performance in livestock reflects increased global demand across ruminants, swine and poultry products along with higher demand for our animal health intelligence product. I'll now walk you through the remainder of our P&L, and my comments will be on a non-GAAP basis. Gross margin was 76.5% in the quarter, a decrease of 0.6% and reflecting the unfavorable effects of foreign exchange, pricing pressure, and higher manufacturing costs, partially offset by favorable product mix. Operating expenses increased 13% year over year to $4.8 billion, driven largely by higher clinical development costs, increased investment in our early stage pipeline, and higher promotion costs in support of returned care activity for our key growth drivers. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 14.6% an increase of 1.3% from a year ago, driven by discrete items last year. Taken together, we earned $1.31 per share, an increase of 27%. Before turning to our 2021 guidance, I want to remind you briefly of the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of the spin-off of Organon. With the spin completed, Merck is now a more focused company and better positioned to unlock the full potential of our growth pillars and drive accelerated profitable growth. We are very excited about our future. And as we look out to 2024, we continue to believe that our revenue potential is underappreciated. Now for 2021, health systems and patients have largely adapted to the impacts of the pandemic, and we assume this trend will continue. We are narrowing and raising our expected revenue range to $46.4 billion to $47.4 billion, representing growth of 12% to 14%, including a positive impact from foreign exchange of less than 2% using mid-July rates. The underlying demand for our growth pillars and our strong commercial execution provides us with confidence that we will continue to see strong momentum throughout the remainder of the year. As such, we expect total revenues to be sequentially higher in each consecutive quarter. Our gross margin is expected to be between 76% and 77%. We expect operating expenses to grow at a high single-digit rate, driven by increased investment in promotion and patient activation programs to accelerate our near-term business momentum. And by increased R&D investment to advance our exciting pipeline to support sustainable long-term revenue growth. As a reminder, our operating margin from continuing operations will be lower than what they were as a combined company, but our guidance range implies significant operating leverage in 2021. In addition, we continue to expect operating margins of greater than 42% in 2024, driven by our accelerated revenue growth and disciplined investment in our business. In other income and expense, we expect expense of approximately $300 million. We expect our full-year tax rate to be between 14.5% and 15.5%. We assumed 2.53 billion shares outstanding. Taken together, we expect non-GAAP EPS to be -- excuse me, to be between $5.47 and $5.57, reflecting growth of 21% to 23%. This range includes a positive impact from foreign exchange of approximately 2% using mid-July rates. As you consider your models and the allocation of revenues to various products, there are two areas to focus on: GARDASIL and animal health. Frank described the strong acceleration in growth expected in GARDASIL, and we also expect continued momentum in our animal health business. Our updated guidance also reflects the benefits of the approval of KEYNOTE-522, and as a reminder, does not include revenue from the potential launch of molnupiravir. Turning to capital allocation. We received $9 billion cash distribution from Organon, which we intend to deploy in value-enhancing strategic business development opportunities that align with the parameters Rob outlined. In the absence of meaningful business development, we will return cash to shareholders through share repurchases. We remain committed to investing in support of our key brands and progressing our innovative pipeline. And we will look to increase our dividend payout ratio over time. To conclude, as a leaner, more focused, and agile company, Merck is prepared to capitalize on the meaningful opportunities that lie ahead and is better equipped to succeed in an ever-changing landscape. Merck remains in a position of financial and operational strength, which we will leverage to drive long-term sustainable growth and value creation for our patients and shareholders. With that, I'd now like to turn the call over to Dean.Dean Li -- President of Merck Research Labs Thank you, Caroline. I'm delighted to be here today to provide an overview of progress made over the past quarter. I will cover key regulatory milestones and clinical updates, initially in oncology and then across the broader pipeline. As Rob highlighted, we continue to show strong momentum in our oncology pipeline which positions us well. And it's worth reiterating our goal: to potentially deliver 90-plus approvals and new indications by 2028. A recent report from the American Cancer Society noted that there's been a rapid decrease in lung cancer and melanoma deaths from 2014 to 2018. One factor attributed to this decline is advancements in research including targeted therapies and immune checkpoint inhibitors. The report also notes there is an urgent need to accelerate a decline in death rates for breast, prostate and other cancers where Merck is just beginning to make an impact. We are hopeful that our contributions and the advances being made industrywide, will continue to fuel this decline. Notably, during the last quarter, we achieved several milestones for treatments targeting women's cancer. In triple-negative breast cancer, the most aggressive subtype of breast cancer where historically treatment options have been limited, I am pleased to announce several advancements, which will improve options for patients. The first is FDA approval for a new indication in high-risk early stage triple-negative breast cancer based on results from the pivotal phase 3 KEYNOTE-522 study, where KEYTRUDA was evaluated in combination with chemotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment and then as monotherapy adjuvant treatment post surgery. These practice-changing event-free survival results were presented just two weeks ago, which demonstrated a remarkable 37% reduction in the risk of progression including definitive surgery, local or distant recurrings, second primary malignancy or death from any cause compared to chemotherapy alone in patients. Now additionally, we announced positive clinically meaningful top line overall survival results from the phase 3 KEYNOTE-355 study evaluating KEYTRUDA in combination with chemotherapy in patients with untreated metastatic triple-negative breast cancer, whose tumors express PD-L1 with a combined proportion score greater than or equal to 10. This positions KEYTRUDA to be the first anti-PD-1 therapy in combination with chemotherapy to show statistically significant overall survival in metastatic triple-negative breast cancer. We will work with the regulators to expand the existing indication to include survival benefits and will aim to share full results soon. Now also for early stage breast cancer, along with our partners at AstraZeneca, we presented results at ASCO from the phase 2 OlympiA trial, evaluating Lynparza for the adjuvant treatment of certain patients with germline BRCA high-risk HER2-negative early stage breast cancer. These findings clearly demonstrated that Lynparza reduced the risk of invasive breast cancer recurrence, second cancer or death by 42%. Results will be submitted to global regulatory authorities, and the trial continues to evaluate overall survival. Now also at ASCO, with our partners at Seagen, we presented additional encouraging data from the HER2CLIMB study TUKYSA in patients with early stage HER2-positive breast cancer. It is clear that Merck is establishing an important beachhead in breast cancer with multiple agents. The progress we are making in this area of significant unmet patient need is one example of our strategy to expand into earlier lines of therapy and our strong conviction that our oncology assets have the potential to change the way early stage cancers are treated. We are also making progress across women's cancer more broadly. We received an approval from the FDA for an expanded indication for the combination of KEYTRUDA and LENVIMA for the treatment of certain patients with advanced endometrial carcinoma where along with our partners at Eisai, we showed results from the confirmatory phase 3 KEYNOTE-775 study earlier this year. And finally, we had positive results from the pivotal phase 3 KEYNOTE-826 trial investigating KEYTRUDA in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy with and without bevacizumab for the first-line treatment of patients with persistent, recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer regardless of their PD-L1 status. The trial met its dual primary endpoints of overall survival and progression-free survival. Results will be presented at an upcoming medical meeting, and submitted to regulatory authorities. Additional FDA approvals this quarter included 2 new indications for KEYTRUDA. The first is in combination with trastuzumab and chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic HER2-positive gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma based on results from the phase 3 KEYNOTE-811 study. The second approval was an expanded indication for cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma for patients with locally advanced disease that is not curable by surgery or radiation. This was granted under accelerated approval based on a phase 2 KEYNOTE-629 study. The FDA also granted priority review based on phase 3 data from KEYNOTE-581 in first-line treatment advanced renal cell carcinoma, and we expect the decision in the third quarter. Now outside the United States, the European Commission approved a new indication for KEYTRUDA plus chemotherapy in certain patients with esophageal cancer or HER2 negative gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma based on results from KEYNOTE-590. And in China, Lynparza was granted conditional approval for certain patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who progressed following prior treatment with certain new hormonal agents. This is the first PARP inhibitor to be approved for advanced prostate cancer in China. Now also at the ASCO virtual meeting new data supporting the benefit of KEYTRUDA in earlier lines of therapy from the pivotal phase 3 KEYNOTE-564 trial for the adjuvant treatment of certain patients with renal cell carcinoma was presented. KEYTRUDA given after surgery demonstrated a statistically significant and clinically meaningful reduction in the risk of disease recurrence or death by 32% compared to placebo. Results will be submitted to global regulatory authorities and the trial will continue to evaluate overall survival. We are making progress on our strategy to extend the benefit of KEYTRUDA to more patients. This includes the initiation of a phase 3 trial evaluating a subcutaneous formulation of pembrolizumab in combination with chemotherapy in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. We believe this new formulation could be an important additional option for patients. This study will be enrolling soon with a readout expected in early 2023. And finally, belzutifan continues to make good progress with additional phase 2 data presented at ASCO, and an expected FDA action date in September and a development program with three phase 3 studies in renal cell carcinoma that are gaining momentum. Now turning to our broader pipeline. In response to the outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 in India. We made the decision to enable access to molnupiravir in low and middle-income countries through voluntary license agreements with several Indian generic manufacturers. While the ongoing studies in India are recruiting a different patient population, we are encouraged by the data being generated and we look forward to continuing to help with the crisis. We remain excited by the progress of molnupiravir and the data we've seen to date. Along with our partner, Ridgeback Biotherapeutics, we announced the presentation of full results from the dose-finding phase of phase 2/3 studies in both outpatient and hospitalized patients at the European congress of clinical microbiology and infectious disease 2021. We look forward to the readout from the phase 3 portion of the study in the October time frame. Additionally, we posted a new phase 3 study evaluating molnupiravir as a post-exposure prophylactic option and look forward to a readout in the first half of 2022. In HIV, we continue to progress our islatravir development program, our investigation on nucleoside reverse transcriptase translocation inhibitor. Phase 2 data presented at the International AIDS Society Meeting a few weeks ago continued to support the safety and tolerability profile of oral once-monthly islatravir in the PrEP setting. We are continuing to enroll patients across diverse populations and geographies in the phase 3 EMPOWER trials, and are moving forward with studies evaluating islatravir in treatment and prevention settings. In vaccines, I am pleased to note the FDA approval of VAXNEUVANCE, the first in a suite of promising pneumococcal conjugate vaccine candidate for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease in the dose 18 years and older caused by 15 serotypes. Along with immune response data showing that VAXNEUVANCE can maintain progress achieved to date based on noninferiority to serotypes shared with PCV13, VAXNEUVANCE also induced superior immune response to PCC 13 for shared serotypes 3 and for the two serotypes unique to VAXNEUVANCE, 22F and 33F. These immunogenicity data position this vaccine to offer an important new option and protection of adults from invasive pneumococcal disease. We look forward to further engagement with the ACIP, including discussing the positive results we achieved through our robust development program, studying a broad range of adult populations and clinical circumstances, including adults at increased risk. Building on our clinical evidence for VAXNEUVANCE, we also announced that two of our phase 3 pediatric study met their primary immunogenicity and safety endpoints in supporting potential use in healthy infants who may have previously started a pneumococcal vaccination series with PCV13 and in a catch-up setting for healthy children who have either not received pneumococcal vaccine or received a full or partial regimen with lower valency pediatric PCVs. We continue to anticipate data from our phase 1/2 program evaluating V116, our adult-focused vaccine, to read out later this year. To conclude, I remain excited about the progress in our broader pipeline and efforts stemming from Merck Research Labs that contribute to improving options and treatments for diseases that affect people globally. We continue to deliver on our strategy with speed and urgency to harness the benefits of our cancer therapies for as many patients as possible while advancing a broad pipeline of promising vaccines and therapeutic candidates. Now I will turn the call back to Peter.Peter Dannenbaum -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Dean. Mary, will you please start the question-and-answer session? [Operator instructions] 