
OperatorWelcome everyone to the First Quarter Fiscal Year 2022 earnings conference call. My name is Victoria and I'll be coordinating your call today. [Operator Instructions] I'll turn over at over to your host, Paul Surdez, Vice President of Investor Relations from Catalent to being.Paul, please go ahead.Paul Surdez -- Vice President Investor Relations

 



Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to review Catalent's first quarter 2022 financial results. Joining me on the call today are John Chiminski, Chair and Chief Executive Officer, and Tom Castellano, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please see our agenda for today's call. On Slide 2 of our supplemental presentation which is available on our Investor Relations website at investor.catalent.com. During our call today, management will make forward-looking statements and refer to non-GAAP financial measures.It is possible that actual results could differ from management's expectations. We refer you to Slide 3 for more detail on forward-looking statements. Slides 4 and 5 discuss Catalent's use of non-GAAP financial measures and our just issued earnings release provides reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, please also refer to Catalent's Form 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC today for additional information on the risks and uncertainties that may bear on our operating results, performance and financial condition, including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic.Now, I would like to turn the call over to John Chiminski whose remarks will cover Slides 6 and 7 of the presentation.John Chiminski -- Chair & Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks Paul. And welcome to the call. Catalent began fiscal 2022 with a strong start. Our first quarter financial results were driven by both our ongoing work in support of global efforts to address the pandemic, as well as our other critical work with our customers in delivering products that help people live better healthier lives. In addition, we simultaneously continued to execute on our long-term growth strategy through organic investments and strategic acquisitions. Before I detail our specific achievements during the quarter, let me highlight our first quarter results.Our net revenue for the first quarter was just over $1 billion, increasing 21% as reported or 20% in constant currency compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021. When excluding acquisitions and divestitures, organic growth was 23% measured in constant currency. Our adjusted EBITDA of $252 million for the first quarter increased 44% on both an as reported and constant currency basis, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021. When excluding acquisitions and divestitures, organic growth was 52% measured in constant currency.Our adjusted net income for the first quarter was $128 million or $0.71 per diluted share, up from $0.43 per diluted share in the corresponding prior year period. The Biologics segment, driven by continued high demand from COVID-19 projects was again the top contributor to Catalent's financial performance. The segment experienced organic net revenue growth of 44% with segment EBITDA growing 56% from the first quarter of last year. Our Softgel and Oral Technologies segment resumed net revenue growth following the pandemic related headwinds it experienced over the last year. Increased year-over-year demand for both prescription and consumer health products drove a 9% increase in net revenue within the segment during the first quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021, which is highly encouraging.With net revenue up over the last year yet still down compared to the first quarter of 2020, this segment is still experiencing effects from the pandemic. However, we're seeing signs that these issues are transitory and we're looking forward to continued improvement over time. Moving on now to our Oral and Specialty Delivery segment where we also saw a return to organic net revenue growth after facing headwinds in fiscal 2021. As with Softgel and Oral Technologies, there are improving market dynamics across our Oral and Specialty Delivery segment, most notably this quarter in our early phase development offerings.

 



Finally, our Clinical Supply Services segment posted modest net revenue growth this quarter compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021 with profitability negatively impacted by the cost of opening our new full service facilities in San Diego, California and Shiga, Japan. Both investments are poised to meet growing customer demand and are expected to be long-term growth drivers for this segment. On our last earnings call, we announced our agreement to acquire Bettera, a leading developer and manufacturer of consumer preferred gummies, soft chews and lozenges for nutraceutical functional and botanical extract products for $1 billion.Following the completion of a successful debt raise including additional term loans whose proceeds we used in part upon the acquisition we closed the Bettera acquisition on October 1 making Catalent one of the leading independent suppliers in a high growth, capacity constrained portion of the nutraceutical and nutritional supplement market. This acquisition enables Catalent and specifically our Softgel and Oral Technologies segment to expand our existing substantial consumer health platform by adding the fast growing consumer preferred dose format for nutritional supplements. This expansion also meets the evolving needs of our consumer health customers who have consistently asked Catalent for new additions to our product library including gummies and other engaging formats for their nutritional supplement and nutraceutical product concepts.As highlighted on our last call, acquiring Bettera enables us to increase our expectations for the long-term organic revenue growth rate in our Softgel and Oral Technologies segment from 3% to 5% to 6% to 8%. This raise [Phonetic] is driven by the strength of our current advanced offerings and product libraries and is enhanced by the 20% plus growth contribution we expect from Bettera over the next several years. This attractive growth rate for Bettera is accompanied by core EBITDA margins accretive to the segment.Combined, these factors lead us to expect the acquisition to be accretive to adjusted net income per share in the first year after close and significantly accretive thereafter. Our work streams integrating Bettera and supporting and accelerating its existing growth plans and the transition of approximately 500 experienced employees are now in full-flight. As we integrate these new capabilities and its robust library of ready-to-market products, we're further solidifying Catalent's place as a partner of choice for consumer health companies across the globe.As we've already experienced significant customer interest in engaging in these new capabilities, we are considering accelerating our organic investment plans for these new and exciting offerings. Next, I'll provide updates on a few organic investments in our Biologics segment that have progressed since our last call. First, with respect to our biotherapeutics offerings, we previously detailed many of our upgrades at our growing campus in Bloomington, Indiana. These upgrades have served as the key growth driver for Catalent and it played a critical role in the global effort to bring the pandemic to an end, allowing us to quickly scale high-speed filling lines on behalf of our COVID-19 vaccine customers.Just recently, we completed the addition of a new high-speed syringe filling line at the site, a project that we first announced in January 2019. This slide is an additional source of growth for our Biologics segment and like all of our existing syringe filling lines can be leveraged for a wide range of biologics products including COVID-19 vaccines. Given the strong demand for bio-therapeutic manufacturing, we will continue to invest in additional drug product and drug substance capacity at our Bloomington campus.Similarly, we continue to make organic investments at our 300,000 square foot facility in Anagni, Italy, which we originally purchased in January of 2020. When we acquired this site, it already benefited from years of steady investments that now support our biologics capabilities as well as other assets capabilities for all dose forms including high capacity blister packaging and bottle cartoning solutions. Since the acquisition, we've made significant investments in Anagni to meet growing customer demand for biologics capacity.In 2020, we took action to meet the needs of multiple vaccine innovators including several enhancements to existing capacity to improve productivity and output. In February of this year, we began the rapid build out of an additional high speed vial filling line, which has been qualified and will soon begin manufacturing. In addition to drug product investments, we announced a $100 million expansion project at our Anagni facility over the summer. The expansion will allow us to add biologics drug substance manufacturing capability at the site, establishing our first drug substance capacity outside of the US to support the growing European market demand for biologics manufacture and supply.Ultimately, the expansion will house multiple single-use bioreactors totaling 16,000 liters of total flexible manufacturing capacity with the initial 4,000 liters expected to be completed in late fiscal 2023. The growth in investment at our Anagni site demonstrate how the COVID-19 pandemic has not only accelerated our strategic plans, but has also accelerated the return on investments we've made, enabling us to put additional cash to work to drive continued long-term growth. We also recently announced additional investments in our gene therapy campus in Harmans, Maryland near the BWI Airport. Early this calendar year, we completed construction in one building and campus, which now contains 10 multi-room commercial-scale manufacturing suites.Given the high demand for manufacturing of the growing number of gene therapy compounds in other products addressing new modes of treatment in the industry's development pipeline we're increasing the number of manufacturing suites, planned for the adjacent building from the five suites we initially announced to add three more commercial scale advanced biologics manufacturing suites. This latest expansion will also include the construction of new storage capabilities for just-in-time inventory space, ultra-low temperature freezers to support a larger set of compounds and an expansion of overall infrastructure.When completed at the end of calendar 2022, the campus will house a total 18 CGMP manufacturing suites each designed to accommodate multiple bioreactors of 2000-liter scale and enable the execution of commercial manufacturing from cell bank to purified drug substance. Given the growing scope of investments made to support the campus, the total size of this project to be spent over a multi-year period starting last year is now expected to be $360 million, up from the $130 million initially projected. This increase in investment was already factored into our initial fiscal 2022 capex plans discussed on our last earnings call.Finally, through the acquisition of RheinCell in August, we expanded our cell therapy offerings to include proprietary iPSC GMP cell lines and technology to boost our current development and manufacturing capabilities to bring iPSC based cell therapy to scale. We are receiving a good number of customer inquiries for this exciting new offering and integration is tracking to our expectations. I'd now like to turn the call over to Tom, who will review our financial results for the first quarter and our fiscal 2022 guidance which we're raising to reflect the closing of the Bettera acquisition, as well as our increased organic growth forecast for the remainder of the year.Thomas Castellano -- Senior Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThanks John. I'll begin this morning with a discussion on segment performance where commentary around segment growth will be in constant currency. I will start on Slide 8 with the Biologics segment. To highlight, the company's transformation over the last few years, you will see that the segment represented 53% of our net revenue in Q1 of this fiscal year, compared to 44% in Q1 of fiscal 2021 and 28% in Q1 of fiscal 2020. Biologics net revenue in Q1 of $546 million increased 44% compared to the first quarter of 2021, the segment EBITDA increasing 55% over the same period.This robust net revenue growth was organic and is driven by high demand for drug product and drug substance offerings in the US and Europe, most notably for COVID-19 related programs, which continue to contribute to both development and commercial organic revenue growth. The segment's EBITDA margin increased significantly year-over-year to 30.3% compared to 28% in Q1 of the prior year, which is primarily attributable to increased capacity utilization and higher manufacturing volumes. We expect the Biologics segment growth rate to decelerate as the year progresses, because we will begin to compare against the higher levels of demand from the back half of our last fiscal year.Please turn to Slide 9 which presents results from our Softgel and Oral Technologies segment. Softgel and Oral Technologies net revenue of $243 million increased 9% compared to the first quarter of 2021 with segment EBITDA increasing 9% over the same period. The increase was driven by growth in both prescription products and consumer health products, mainly in cough, cold and over the counter pain relief products. It is encouraging to see the start of a strong return for commercial demand which despite growing 9% year-over-year is still below the segment's pre-pandemic level in the comparable first quarter of 2020.Development revenue continues to perform robustly as it has throughout the pandemic period and is a strong indicator for long-term growth in the segment. Segment EBITDA grew 9% and EBITDA margin was in line with the first quarter of the prior year. Slide 10 shows the results of the Oral and Specialty Delivery segment. Net revenue growth in the segment was again impacted by the challenging comparison against the prior year, where we had recorded revenue associated with a single product in our respiratory platform that was voluntarily recalled in September 2020. However, EBITDA had a favorable comparison due to the $12 million of recall related costs incurred in the first quarter of 2021.As the recall product did not generate revenue after it was voluntarily recalled, this will be the last quarter for which it will impact the net revenue comparison in the segment, though favorable segment EBITDA comparison will likely continue as recall cost extended throughout fiscal 2021. With that background segment recorded net revenue of $146 million in the quarter, which was down 10% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021. Segment EBITDA was $33 million, a 48% increase over the first quarter of 2021. When factoring out the net impact from the divestiture of our blow-fill-seal business and the acquisition of Acorda's spray drying assets, organic net revenue grew 3% and segment EBITDA more than doubled.The top line growth is primarily driven by elevated demand for early phase development programs. You may recall that a year ago, we called out lower demand for early phase development programs as a result of pandemic related lockdowns, so this down stack is another good indicator of the return of pre-pandemic activity. As shown on Slide 11 our Clinical Supply Services segment posted net revenue of $96 million representing 2% growth over the Q1, the prior year. This was driven by strong global demand in manufacturing and packaging services, partially offset by a decline in demand for storage and distribution services in Europe. North America saw an increase in storage and distribution demand in the quarter.During the quarter, we opened two new full-service clinical supply facilities, one in San Diego, and the other in Shiga, Japan. Costs related to these openings had an adverse impact on segment EBITDA and the segment EBITDA margin. As of September 30, 12/21 backlog for the segment was $550 million compared to $501 million at the end of last quarter and up 20% from September 30, 2020. The segment recorded net new business wins of $109 million during the first quarter, a 10% increase compared to the first quarter of the prior year.The segment's trailing 12-month book-to-bill ratio is 1.3 times. Moving to our consolidated adjusted EBITDA, on Slide 12 our first quarter adjusted EBITDA increased 44% to $252 million or 24.6% of net revenue compared to 20.6% of net revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. On a constant currency basis, our first quarter adjusted EBITDA increased 44% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2021 while organic EBITDA growth was higher at 52%. As shown on Slide 13 first quarter adjusted net income of $128 million was $0.71 per diluted share compared to adjusted net income of $78 million or $0.43 per diluted share in the first quarter a year ago.Slide 14 shows our debt, related ratios, and our capital allocation priorities. At the end of September, the company raised $1.1 billion in gross proceeds through current [Phonetic] of an incremental term loan and issuance of new senior notes at an attractive overall average rate of approximately 3%. We use most of the net proceeds to fund the Bettera acquisition, which was completed on October 1. This capital raise drove our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance at September 30, just before the closing to be in excess of $2 billion compared to $957 million of June 30. Our net leverage was 2.1 times at September 30 compared to 2.2 times at June 30. However, on the reported cash balance and corresponding leverage ratios, it's artificially favorable due to the timing of the closing of the Bettera acquisition.When adjusting for this, our pro forma cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance as of September 30 would have been approximately $1 billion and our pro forma net leverage ratio would have been 3.0 times, which aligns with our long-term leverage target. From here, we will naturally delever providing us with significant flexibility to continue to pursue organic and inorganic growth opportunities. Moving on to capital expenditures, we continue to expect capex to be approximately 15% to 16% of our 2022 net revenue expectations, driven primarily by growth investments in our Biologics segment including the investment that John detailed earlier.Now, we turn to our fiscal outlook for fiscal 2022 as outlined on Slide 15 which have been updated to reflect to October 1 acquisition of Bettera. As well as an increase in organic growth we are not forecasting in back half of the year, we now expect full year net revenue in the range of $4.62 billion to $4.82 billion, representing growth of 16% to 21% versus our previous estimate $4.3 billion to $4.5 billion. We now project that net revenue growth from M&A will be 2 percentage points to 3 percentage points, driven by the acquisition of Bettera.Recall that our original guidance for M&A activity reflected a negative 1 percentage point to 2 percentage point impact as the divestiture of the blow-fill-seal business more than offset the expected upside from the multiple smaller acquisitions we completed in fiscal 2021. We continue to project organic net revenue growth in each of our segments to be within or above the long-term growth range we have previously disclosed for each segment. For full-year adjusted EBITDA, we expect a range of $1.225 billion to $1.295 billion representing growth of 20% to 27% over fiscal 2021 compared to our previous estimate of $1.13 billion to $1.20 billion.We expect full year adjusted net income of $630 million to $695 million, representing growth of 15% to 27% over the last year compared to our previous estimate of $585 million to $650 million. We continue to expect our fully diluted share count on a weighted average basis for fiscal 2022 to be in the range of 181 million shares to 183 million shares. This projection counts our Series A convertible preferred shares as if all were converted to common shares in accordance with their terms. Finally, we also continue to expect our consolidated effective tax rate to be between 23% and 25% for fiscal 2022.Operator, this concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open the call for questions.