
Mary Lai -- Head of Investor RelationsGood morning, everyone. Thank you for tuning in. I'm Mary Lai, Head of Investor Relations at NortonLifeLock. Welcome to NortonLifeLock first Investor Day. For Q&A discussion today, we have a great line up for you, including Vincent Pilette, CEO; Natalie Derse, CFO and other members of the leadership team. As a reminder, there will be a replay of this event posted on the IR website and by now you should have seen our press release and have accessed all the video presentations.I'd like to remind everyone that during this call, comments and statements may contain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our business, financial performance and operations. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially. For more information, please refer to the cautionary statement in our press release and the risk factors in our filings with the SEC and in particular, our Annual Report on Form 10-K and recently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.In addition, we may also make references to financial metrics that are non-GAAP. Please refer to our IR website for reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures.

 



Before we start our Q&A session, let me pass the mic over to our CEO to kick-off event. Vincent?Vincent Pilette -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Mary and good morning, everyone. I hope you are all safe and well, as you may have read we just delivered a record quarter closing a very strong year. Since becoming NortonLifeLock we achieved a lot delivering on every one of our commitments. The more important of which was returning the Company to growth. In the last quarter, reported billings was up 17% and revenue up 11%, record numbers. And in the last year, we increased our direct customer count to almost 3 million to a total direct customer count of 23 million. But for this team, it is just the beginning. We have a broad vision of protecting and empowering everyone to live their digital lives safely. We have big goals of drastically improving customer experience and making cyber safety mainstream.Our strategy is simple and is working. We are building the best integrated cyber safety platform which we are expanding with adjacent trust based products and services. Through our results, through the videos we posted yesterday, today and of course ongoing weeks [Phonetic], I hope you can sense the passion and the drive that this new leadership team brings to the opportunity. We have the capabilities and the confidence to accelerate our growth to double-digit and double our EPS in the next three to five years.

 



You know Natalie, you know me, we have decided to bring a subset of our leadership team to this session. This is about teamwork, you can get a better appreciation of who we are. How we look at our opportunity and how we drive together with a common set of values in pursuit of our vision. So with no further due, let's move to Q&A. Mary, back to you.