
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to Carrier's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available to download from the Carrier's website at ir.carrier.com.I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Sam Pearlstein, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.Sam Pearlstein -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Thank you, and good morning, and welcome to Carrier's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. With me here today are David Gitlin, Chairman and CEO; and Patrick Goris, Chief Financial Officer. Except as otherwise noted, the company will be speaking to results from operations, excluding restructuring costs and other significant items of a nonrecurring and/or nonoperational nature, often referred to by management as other significant items.The company reminds listeners that the sales, earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided during the call are subject to risks and uncertainties. Carrier's SEC filings, including Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. This morning, we'll review our financial results for the first quarter and discuss the full year 2021 outlook, and we'll leave time for questions at the end. [Operator Instructions]With that, I'd like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, Dave Gitlin.David Gitlin -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Sam, and good morning everyone. Starting on Slide two with an overview of the quarter. Q1 was a great quarter for us and an early indication that a global economic recovery is under way. Areas of our portfolio that have been performing well have continued to improve, and those businesses and verticals that were acutely impacted by the pandemic are showing early indications of recovery. Overall, volume came in stronger than we planned. Reported sales were up over 20%, including organic growth of 17% driven by another very strong quarter in North American residential, which was up 50%. We also saw strong growth in commercial HVAC and transport refrigeration.All of our segments contributed to the organic growth in Q1 as the organization continued to execute well on our growth initiatives, including the aftermarket, which grew close to double digits. Notably, compared to the first quarter of 2019, we grew sales about 6% organically. This was coupled with strong order trends leading to a healthy backlog at the end of the quarter. Orders were up over 30% compared to last year, driving the organic backlog up 13% sequentially and up close to 20% year-over-year.We produced $608 million of adjusted operating profit, up approximately 40% year-over-year. Given supply chain constraints, we are incurring some additional inflationary pressures and higher logistics costs and meeting customer demand. We are working to mitigate these headwinds through additional cost and pricing actions. Finally, I am encouraged by our free cash flow generation in the first quarter. Though we do not expect to regularly adjust guidance for the full year after just one quarter, we are increasing guidance on sales, earnings and free cash flow given our stronger-than-expected Q1 results and confidence in the macro trends that we're seeing.We now expect reported sales to grow 7% to 10%, including a 2% tailwind from FX. We expect adjusted EPS to increase by about 20% at the midpoint, and we are increasing our projected free cash flow for the year by about $100 million to about $1.7 billion. Slide three shows the flywheel that I've used in prior earnings calls to explain how our key focus areas will drive shareholder value. In the upper left, we continue to ensure that we drive a performance culture. We are now one year into our journey as a stand-alone public company, and we are building momentum.

 



We started off by putting a playbook in place and a year later, I can say that we are a fundamentally different company from our culture, to our strategy, to our targeted investment prioritization, balance sheet and capital position. Carrier 700 is the cornerstone of our unrelenting focus on cost reduction, and we achieved about $60 million in Q1 in a tough environment. Increased input costs and -- are putting pressure on our $225 million target for the year, so we are driving additional cost and price actions to offset the unplanned headwind.Also, core to our new culture is a focus on profitable growth. We are gaining traction on all three pillars of our growth strategy. We are gaining share across the portfolio helped by innovation arising from our increasing R&D spend from $400 million in 2019 to about $475 million this year and an additional 600 sales and sales support people that we've added over the past nine months. Regarding aftermarket and digital offerings, we are gaining significant traction as we push our business models to focus more on recurring revenues.We are on track to deliver double-digit aftermarket growth this year, and we continue to expect a number of chillers under contract to increase from 50,000 to 60,000 this year. Increased service coverage and traction on our BlueEdge offerings are enabled by our digital solutions that we are implementing across all of our segments. Lastly, we continue to take a very disciplined approach to capital allocation, which Patrick will cover. We also said that we would continue to invest in solutions for healthy, safe and sustainable building and cold chain solutions and inorganic growth, both of which I'll discuss on Slide four.In Q1, we had over $80 million of orders for healthy building products and services, and we currently have a global pipeline of sales opportunities of more than $500 million. We created a new healthy building solutions organization under Ajay Agrawal leadership with a seasoned team dedicated to this effort. We also introduced differentiated sought-after offerings and we're energized by this week's release of our new digital offering called Abound. It is all about giving customers confidence to reenter crowded indoor environments and providing a healthier indoor experience.Abound gathers performance data from disparate systems, sensors and sources and presents it in a smart, simple interface. It gives a clear view of building systems and sensor performance data and identifies and helps to address anomalies. This solution is not a simple rebranding of digital offerings that we had in our portfolio. It is an open architecture SaaS, cloud-based platform and acts as an intelligence layer interfacing with not only our automated logic controls platform, but also with third-party building management systems and sensors throughout the building.We have had pilots under way with key vertical customers in the office building space, the educational sector and the sports and entertainment vertical. Those have gone tremendously well. A huge vote of confidence is that we signed a deal to support the Atlanta Braves as they start to welcome fans back to Truist Park. Abound will monitor the indoor space covering a range of food and beverage locations and club spaces for guests.As a SaaS platform, Abound is expected to drive more recurring revenues, including subscription and services and also to help pull through additional Carrier equipment sales. We are seeing equally strong progress on our other key ecosystem of focus, healthy, safe and sustainable cold-chain solutions. Sensitech, our cargo monitoring business, had a record Q1 with sales up 16% due in large part to demand related to the distribution of COVID vaccines. Similar to Abound, a key differentiator is our cloud-based digital offering that we are building in partnership with AWS called Lynx.As a key launch customer, SeaCube recently selected the Lynx fleet solution to deliver enhanced digital capabilities for 2,000 refrigerated containers. And finally, on the right side of the chart, we highlight our inorganic growth progress. We were very pleased to announce our agreement to acquire Giwee, which we refer to by its brand name of Chigo. This acquisition will help accelerate our growth in the attractive variable refrigerant flow and international light commercial markets, which have consistently had outsized growth rates over traditional markets.With the acquisition of Chigo, we will own important BRF technology, design capabilities and low-cost manufacturing that we can scale globally. We expect to close the transaction with a majority shareholder in 2Q and we are excited to welcome the Chigo team to the Carrier family. We also continue to add and promote superb talent as we lean into the deployment of the Carrier way. As an example, we recently welcomed Jennifer Anderson to Carrier, leading Corporate Development, Strategy and serving as our Chief Sustainability Officer.She will help drive another key strategic focus, ESG. ESG remains a very important focal point for Carrier as we work toward delivering on our 2030 commitments. We are tracking to our commitment of reducing our customers' carbon emissions by more than one gigaton, as we introduce more energy-efficient and electric solutions. Last week, Carrier improved to a top quartile score with Sustainalytics, and we are now number five within the building products category out of 129 companies. And we also continue to make good progress on our D&I initiatives. Our number of diverse executives has increased significantly since 2015, and we are leaning in to making sustainable changes to ensure that we have a truly inclusive culture.With that, let me turn it over to Patrick.Patrick Goris -- FinanceThank you, Dave, and good morning, everyone. Please turn to Slide five. As Dave discussed, Q1 was a great start to the year. Sales of $4.7 billion were up 21% versus the prior year. Currency was a four-point tailwind for sales in the quarter, about $150 million. On the top line, we saw a return to year-over-year organic growth in almost all of our businesses in Q1, and all three segments exceeded their organic growth expectations for the quarter. Organic sales growth of 17% was significantly better than we expected, and March was particularly strong across our businesses. Adjusted operating profit was up 39% compared to last year, and operating margin expanded 170 basis points.Strong sales growth and benefits from the Carrier 700 were partially offset by investments. Results also included some higher freight costs and a product trouble issue at a minority JV. Price/cost in the quarter was about neutral. Earnings conversion was better than the high-teens I shared with you in February driven by the stronger-than-expected sales performance. We delivered 21% conversion despite the onetime items we previously discussed. The loss of buyer-related income, the impact of deferred and equity compensation and lower conversion on currency. Excluding these items, conversion was about 30% in the quarter. Free cash flow of $131 million in the quarter mainly reflected better-than-expected net income and improved working capital performance.During the quarter, we repurchased about 976,000 shares at an average cost of $38.40 per share. Let's now look at how the segments performed, starting on Slide six. HVAC organic sales were up 25% in the quarter, driven by the 48% residential growth. Distributor movement was very strong at about 20%, and we believe there was some earlier-than-expected seasonal inventory build in the channel. Commercial HVAC sales were up in the mid-teens organically. Strong growth in applied & service more than offset continued lower volume in North America light commercial, which was down mid-single digits.Light commercial order rates were up over 10% in the quarter, and field inventory levels are down over 30% compared to last year, positioning this business for a strong Q2. The HVAC team expanded margins by 240 basis points, driven by growth in residential and in services. The segment remains on track to generate about 16% margins this year. Over to Refrigeration on Slide seven. Sales were up 19% organically, as the cyclical recovery in transport that we've seen in orders has started to materialize in sales. Transport refrigeration was up 22% in the quarter, driven by over 40% growth in container and truck/trailer recovery, particularly in Europe and Asia.North America truck/trailer grew high single digits with each month improving. Commercial refrigeration grew low double digits as pent-up demand and reopenings in Europe drove strong growth. Margins were up 50 basis points in the quarter compared to last year. We continue to meet customer demand, but are incurring some higher costs to do so, including airfreight. We expect operating margins to improve as growth in the higher-margin North America truck/trailer business accelerates.Flipping to Slide eight. Organic sales at the Fire & Security segment grew 3% and both the products and field businesses grew at similar rates. Within the products business, which represents about 60% of this segment sales, residential and commercial fire continued to be solid, while access solutions in our industrial businesses remain challenging. Of note, the product business saw a significant pickup in the month of March, leading to a strong end of the quarter. Our field business, Chubb, generated organic sales growth of about 4%.The growth was largely driven by Europe and other, and order rates were strong, especially in Asia. As you can see on the slide, Chubb booked its largest installation order ever. Strong Carrier 700 performance helped drive a 220 basis point margin improvement in this segment. Now let me review the order activity we saw in the first quarter on Slide nine. As you can see, our residential and light commercial businesses continued to see strong demand. Backlog in residential is up sequentially and is still up almost threefold compared to a year ago and puts us in a solid position for shipments entering Q2 and the cooling season.Commercial HVAC orders were up high-teens compared to last year and backlog increased over 10% compared to the last -- compared to last quarter in that business. For Refrigeration, order activity for the truck/trailer business continued to improve sequentially. North America truck/trailer orders were up well over 100% in the quarter, and Europe was up over 50%. Strong order intake and backlogs exiting Q1 should position the Refrigeration segment to achieve closer to high-teens organic sales growth for the year. Order intake for our Fire & Security segment also continued to improve sequentially.Product orders were up 5% year-over-year with a strong end to the quarter, especially in residential and commercial fire. Like prior quarters, industrial end markets and the hospitality vertical remain weak, but comparisons get better in Q2. Field orders were up about 15% organically as activity begins to pick up in Europe and against an easier Asia comp. Installation orders were solid, and we continue to have a record backlog. Let's walk through the EPS bridge on Slide 10.As I mentioned, Q1 EPS of $0.48 was $0.13 higher than prior year, and the growth comes largely from operational performance, as you can see on the bridge. Strong sales growth is the main driver here as well as Carrier 700 savings of about $60 million. Operational performance was also impacted by some of the headwinds I referred to earlier, including higher freight costs and the product trouble at a minority JV. While inflationary pressures continue, we're working to offset this through additional cost and pricing actions.We recently announced a second price increase in our residential HVAC business for June as well as an increase in transport refrigeration, and we're implementing similar actions in other areas of our portfolio. The loss of buyer-related income and the year-over-year impact of deferred and equity comp was about a $0.03 headwind in the quarter. All the other items on the bridge are pretty much in line with what we expected, except for the favorable tax item, which will carry through the year. Let's move to Slide 11, updated outlook. Based on stronger-than-expected Q1 performance and an improving outlook, we are increasing our organic sales outlook from a range of 4% to 6% to a new range of 5% to 8%.A bit less than 0.5 point of the incremental organic growth represents incremental pricing actions we already have or are taking to offset higher input costs. We continue to expect price/cost to be about neutral for the year. We expect our adjusted operating margin now could be a bit over 13.5%. The Q1 favorable discrete tax item means that our full year tax rate should now be around 24% rather than 25%. This all leads to an adjusted EPS outlook range of $1.95 to $2.05, a $0.10 improvement at the midpoint from our initial guidance.Our updated outlook does not include the Chigo transaction. Finally, as Dave mentioned, we now expect free cash flow of about $1.7 billion. Slide 12 shows the bridge for the $0.10 improvement in our adjusted EPS outlook from the midpoint of our prior guidance to the midpoint of our current guidance range. The biggest driver is the operational conversion on the additional sales volume. Lower interest expense and the tax item are each adding about $0.02. Over to Slide 13, where I'll reiterate our capital allocation priorities for 2021. There are no changes to our priorities since the Q4 call, but you have started to see us execute on some of these items. During Q1, we paid down $500 million of long-term debt and with the transactions that have closed or have been announced to date, capital deployment on M&A will exceed $200 million this year.Last week, we declared a quarterly dividend. And on share repurchases, we are making progress toward our target for five million shares this year. Before I turn it back to Dave, let me just reiterate that the volatile quarters in 2020 should continue to impact the comparisons in 2021. We still expect strong double-digit organic growth in the first half of 2021 and closer to flat in the second half given the residential comparisons. We expect about half of the full year earnings to be in the first half. So a good start to the year puts us in a position to raise our full year outlook across the board.With that, I'll turn it back to Dave.David Gitlin -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Patrick. We are pleased with a very strong start to the year. Though much work remains to be done, we are confident in our raised guidance for the balance of the year. With that, we'll open this up for questions.