
OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Emma, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Q3 2021 CSX Corporation Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-answer session. [Operator Instructions]Bill Slater, Head of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.Bill Slater -- Head of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Joining me on today's call are Jim Foote, President and Chief Executive Officer, Kevin Boone, Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Jamie Boychuk, Executive Vice President of Operations, and Sean Pelkey, Acting Chief Financial Officer. On Slide 2 is our forward-looking disclosure followed by our non-GAAP disclosure on Slide 3.With that, it's my pleasure to introduce President and Chief Executive Officer, Jim Foote.James M. Foote -- President and Chief Executive OfficerGreat. Thanks, Bill. Thank you to all who are joining us today for the call. I want to begin by thanking all of CSX' employees for their extraordinary efforts to help our customers navigate the strained global supply chain. Across virtually every industry, there are challenges presented by extended lead times, port congestion, shortage of the labor and key materials, and lack of storage capacity.

 



While the current operating environment is challenging, we are not sitting idle. We are designing new solutions to help reduce congestion, adding container yards and bridge to keep Intermodal terminals fluid. And we are investing in both people and network capacity to ensure CSX is able to reliably meet customer needs today and for years to come.In a few minutes, Kevin will go through the revenue numbers and discuss some of the steps we are taking to provide service offerings to our customers, to help them overcome these challenges. And Jamie will provide an update of our hiring initiatives as well as actions we are taking to keep our network fluid.So, let's first turn to the presentation and begin on Slide 4. With an overview of our third quarter results, operating income increased 26% to $1.44 billion. Earnings per share increased 34% to $0.43, and the operating ratio improved by 50 basis points to 56.4%. These figures include the results of Quality Carriers, which did not have a significant impact on operating income but increased third quarter operating ratio by approximately 250 basis points, excluding transaction and integration expenses.I'll now kick it over to Kevin.

 



Kevin Boone -- Executive Vice President of Sales and MarketingThank you, Jim. Turning to slide 5. Third quarter revenue increased 24% year-over-year. With growth across all major lines of business, the inclusion of Quality Carriers revenue represented roughly 8 percentage points of the total increase. Supply chain challenges including a lack of labor and equipment continue to impact almost every market we serve, driving volatility and freight flows, and uneven volumes. Merchandise revenue increased 6% on 2% lower volumes, as higher revenue across all other markets was offset by declines in auto, driven by the ongoing semiconductor shortages.The industrial in construction-related markets such as metals and equipment, forest products and minerals, all showed strong year-over-year volume growth. In addition, our core chemicals business grew but was partially offset by declines in crude oil and other energy-related markets.Intermodal revenue increased 14% on 4% higher volumes, due to increased international shipments as a result of strong demand. Inventory replenishment and growth in rail volumes of East Coast ports. The domestic side was more challenged, as a multiple supply side constraints including container and chassis shortages have resulted in inability to meet the strong demand.Coal revenue increased 39% on 16% higher volumes, with growth across all end-markets. Domestic coal benefited from higher utility and industrial demand, and export coal revenue increased from the combination of higher demand and higher export benchmark prices. Other revenue increased primarily due to higher Intermodal storage and equipment usage due to the broader supply chain disruptions from truck driver shortages, chassis availability, and the lack of warehouse capacity.Turning to Slide 6. This is an extraordinary time, as customers and global supply chain face challenges we have never experienced before. On trucks to chassis, supports to containers, lack of truck drivers to labor challenges at the warehouse and production facilities, we are seeing shortages everywhere. The entire CSX team has been highly focused on delivering new, innovative solutions and partnering with customers to address the supply chain challenges by driving more volume to the railroad.Across the network, we have accelerated investments to create new capacity. To address the truck driver shortages, we have added 13 new overflow container yards, implemented new steel-wheel options for West Coast cargo, and added TRANSFLO sites, that offer customers additional options to move their freight at a lower cost.To address the port congestion in container shortages, we have added new solutions to accelerate repositioning of containers and utilized port-to-port lanes to alleviate marine terminal congestion. We are working closely with partners, including GPA to utilize additional inland rail yards to help reduce congestion at the port.We have also been aggressively expanding our customer solutions team to further supplement the significant investments we are making in customer-facing technology. Our team is working diligently to create new solutions and options for shippers with supply chain disruptions unlikely to improve in the near term.Finally, we are starting to see early signs of customers making long-term investment decisions to reinvest in onshore production and supply chain solutions. To address these customer needs, we continue to develop and invest in new CSX select sites that offer shovel-ready CSX served solution to meet customer requirements.With that, I will hand it over to Jamie to discuss operations.Jamie Boychuk -- Executive Vice President of OperationsThank you, Kevin. As noted, our teams are working closely together to find new ways to overcome the supply chain disruptions and provide new solutions for our customers. In addition to the ongoing supply challenges, as past quarter was further impacted by a rise in COVID mark-offs due to the Delta variant.At peak, we had 700 employees marked off, including regional concentrations that required us to adjust our network plan in real-time to get customers their freight. Despite these challenges, we were able to maintain network performance compared to the prior quarter. And we expect the initiatives we have underway to drive improved fluidity going forward. Kevin touched on many of the things we're doing to help reduce congestion at the ports and keep containers moving, and I want to thank my Intermodal team for the exceptional work they are doing to accomplish these goals.These efforts are highlighted by the nearly 90% Intermodal trip plan compliance that continued to deliver in a challenging environment. We entered the year focused on hiring. The people required to respond to the rising demand. And I'm proud of how our team has been able to think creatively and act decisively to overcome the challenges presented by the tight labor market. Over the course of the year, we have redesigned our recruiting process to eliminate unnecessary steps and significantly shortened the time from application to offer.We have also implemented new recruiting tools and referral programs that are improving our application through the different conversation rates and better identifying highly qualified candidates. These efforts have successfully increased the size and frequency of our conductor classes and provided strong ongoing hire visibility by expanding our new hire pipeline, almost 300% since July.We are also increasing Intermodal headcount and supplemental labor to keep the terminals fluid and allow us to continue moving containers for our customers. While these hiring initiatives are underway, we're taking steps to increase the availability of our existing T&E workforce. We have implemented new attendance-based initiative programs, which allow us to better utilize our existing headcount to move more freight for our customers.We're also making upgrades to our network to increase throughput and create additional capacity. We're installing more automated equipment at our hump yards, we are converting Intermodal terminals to grounded facilities in order to increase capacity, and we are expanding our investment in autonomous trains to increase Intermodal terminal throughput. While we still have sufficient line of road capacity, we are strategically investing in growth by extending sidings in select locations across the network. These siding investments will allow us to continue to refine our train plan and provide growth capacity for years to come. Every action we take is focused on network reliability that begins and ends with running a balanced train plan to minimize delay and maximize network performance. Running a scheduled network ensures assets are in the right place at the right time. We will continue to maintain network balance and the principles of scheduled railroading as we add resources to meet current demand. These principles have allowed continuing the strong performance as we enter into peak season.Turning to Slide 8. Maintaining a safe operation is the foundation to the success in any other operating goal we want to pursue, and we remain committed to being the safest railroad. In the third quarter, personal injury rate improved sequentially and ongoing safety initiatives also drove a decrease in injury severity. While train accident rate increased slightly from last quarter's record result, accidents rates have improved year over year. Focus for the remainder of the year will be critical rule compliance and reducing human factor accidents. We are leveraging the approximate 9,000 tablets distributed to field employees to more productively deliver these messages. Not only do the tablets allow real-time communication of key safety information, but we are also able to more effectively combine electronic and in-person communications to increase the impact of our trainee programs and drive lasting changes in the behavior that will better protect our employees.I'll now turn the call over to Sean for the financials.Sean Pelkey -- Vice President and Acting Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Jamie, and good afternoon. Looking at the income statement on Slide 9, operating income grew nearly $300 million or 26%. Revenue was up 24% reflecting gains across all major markets, higher fuel prices, and the impact of Quality Carriers. The operating ratio of 56.4% is a third quarter record for CSX as we focus on operating efficiently and growing the business.As a reminder, this includes an impact of approximately 250 basis points from ongoing operations at Quality. Looking below the line, interest and other expense was $16 million favorable to last year due to a lower weighted average coupon and lower average debt balances as well as favorable pension impacts. And income tax expense was up on higher pre-tax earnings. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 24.3%.Looking at expenses in more detail on the next slide, total cost increased $349 million or 23% in the quarter. Including transaction and related expenses, approximately $200 million of the increase was driven by Quality Carriers. Higher locomotive fuel prices were also a significant factor, up about $90 million versus last year. Partially offsetting these items, real estate gains were $56 million higher. Non-fuel inflation remained steady versus last quarter and around 3%. As I mentioned last time, we have some lagging contracts that may drive higher inflation going into next year. As Jamie discussed, we continue to focus on hiring and retaining train and engine employees. While headcount was roughly flat sequentially, excluding the addition of Quality Carriers, the conductor count was up and was offset by reductions in other areas of the business. As a result, we experienced $16 million more in hiring and retention costs versus last year.You'll note that we have renamed the prior MS&O line to Purchased Services & Other. The base expenses are identical to the prior MS&O category, but the new description better reflects the costs in this line post-acquisition. Increased costs on this line reflect the addition of Quality as well as higher intermodal terminal and locomotive expense. Depreciation was up on a higher asset base that also includes the acquisition impact. Finally, we are proud to report another all-time record for fuel efficiency in the quarter. This reflects continued focus and investment by CSX demonstrating our commitment to sustainability, and the ongoing environmental advantage of rail.Looking into the fourth quarter, we typically see a seasonal increase in operating expense due to weather, lower capitalized labor as well as holidays and vacations. That trend should continue this year in addition to expected headwinds from higher incentive compensation and lower sequential gains on property sales in the fourth quarter. Peak season expenses are also likely to be higher than normal as a result of ongoing supply chain disruptions.Now turning to cash flow on Slide 11. With operating income up 34% on a year to date basis, free cash flow before dividends this year is $2.9 billion, up nearly 50%. Free cash flow conversion on net income is exceeding 100% year-to-date and we expect it to remain near this level on a full year basis. The company's cash balance of $2.2 billion is beginning to normalize. The lower balance reflects the acquisition in the quarter and a step up in distributions to shareholders. We expect cash to continue to normalize over time. After fully funding capital investments in our core infrastructure, year-to-date shareholder returns have exceeded $2.9 billion including approximately $2.3 billion in buybacks and over $600 million in dividends. We will continue to be balanced and opportunistic in our buyback approach and we remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders.With that, let me turn it back to Jim for his closing remarks.James M. Foote -- President and Chief Executive OfficerGreat. Thank you, Sean. Concluding with Slide 12, we are maintaining our full year outlook for double-digit revenue growth before the impact from Quality Carriers. We expect capital expenditures to be at the top end of our initial $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion range due to materials cost inflation, the capacity investments we just reviewed, and the inclusion of Quality Carriers' capital spend.I'll conclude my remarks the same way I began. We are committed to helping our customers overcome the current supply chain challenges. And as you heard today, our entire team is aligned around this goal and we will continue to act. We have a strong hiring pipeline and we will hire until we have staffed the network to match demand. We expect to hire above attrition throughout the rest of this year and into next year.Economic demand remained strong and CSX will help customers capture that demand. Everything we do begins with a commitment to providing customers a high-quality service. We will build on the positive momentum from actions taken to date. We will continue putting resources in place to drive growth and we will provide customers with creative new offerings that make CSX a more meaningful part of the customer supply chain.Back to you, Bill.Bill Slater -- Head of Investor RelationsThank you, Jim. In the interest of time, I would ask everyone to please limit themselves to one question.With that, we will now take questions.