
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Q1 2021 Teradyne Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Andy Blanchard. Thank you sir, you may begin.Andrew Blanchard -- Vice President, Corporate RelationsThank you, April. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results. I'm joined this morning by our CEO, Mark Jagiela; and our CFO, Sanjay Mehta. Following our opening remarks, we'll provide details of our performance for 2021's first quarter along with our outlook for the second quarter of '21. The press release containing our first quarter results was issued last evening. We are providing slides on the Investor page of the website that may be helpful for you in following the discussions. Replays of this call will be available via the same page after the call ends.

 



The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factor that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. We encourage you to review the safe harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings. Additionally, these forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.During today's call, we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures. We've posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure were available on the Investor page of the website. Looking ahead, between now and our next earnings call, Teradyne expects to participate in technology or industrial focused investor conferences hosted by Wolfe Research, ISI Evercore, Baird, Bank of America, Bernstein and Stifel.Now, let's get on with the rest of the agenda. First, Mark will comment on our recent results and the market conditions as we enter the new quarter. Sanjay will then offer more details on our quarterly results, along with our guidance for the second quarter and we will then answer your questions. The call is scheduled for one hour. Mark?Mark E. Jagiela -- Chief Executive Officer and President

 



Hello, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. In my remarks, I'll summarize our Q1 results, review current market conditions and provide an update on how we're looking at Q2 and the full year. Sanjay will then take you through the financial details of the quarter and our outlook for the second quarter. As you saw in our press release, our Q1 sales and profits grew double-digits from Q1 of 2020's record level. Test sales grew 9% on broad-based demand with notable strength in automotive, industrial compute, memory and storage. Industrial Automation sales grew 33% in the quarter with strong demand at both UR and MiR. Notably, since our January call the market demand in both Test and IA has been greater than we expected as you can see from our Q2 guidance.In Semiconductor Test, customer orders are very strong as complexity continues to increase and chip units are expected to grow almost 15% this year, more than twice last year's rate. Regarding the sustainability of this demand, our visibility is limited to just a quarter or two, but the growth in WFE from $50 billion in 2017 to $60 billion last year to over $75 billion this year should translate into a healthy tester market in the years ahead.Looking at SOC demand, the auto industrial segment is especially robust with our Q1 Eagle shipments up nearly 90% year-on-year and deliveries expected to grow further in Q2. Test demand for mobility and compute devices is also running ahead of our January estimates as these end-markets push the performance limits of advanced process nodes and drive the highest complexity growth. This higher complexity drives longer chip test times and off demands unique tester capabilities. Our UltraFLEX platforms are well aligned to these performance dynamics.As a result of this demand strength, we now expect the SOC test market to be in the $4 billion to 4.4 billion range, up about $700 million at the midpoint from our January estimate. This equates to about 16% growth from 2020 and we expect our share in SOC to be at about the 50% level. In Memory test, we are seeing continued strength in both flash and DRAM. We now expect the full year Memory test market to be in the $900 million to $1.1 billion range, up about $100 million from our January estimate and up about 5% from 2020 levels.

 



Our Magnum platform is in lockstep with the performance trends in both markets and we expect another strong year in 2021. However, since most of the Test market growth is expected to be wafer test applications, where we have less exposure, we're likely to see our share dip a few points into the upper 30s. In System Test, revenue grew 14% from Q1 '20, primarily on higher storage test shipments. As we've noted in past calls, storage test is linked to increasing density and complexity of data center hard disk drives and the expanding adoption of system level test for chip test.Our full year outlook for this business has improved from January as well on strength in both applications. The defense and aerospace and broadcast units of STG are also performing well and we expect the overall group will grow revenue 5% to 10% this year. Our LitePoint business is driven by the complexity of new wireless standards in the connectivity, cellular and other wireless markets. In Q1, connectivity demand was the dominant revenue driver as Wi-Fi 6E ramps in smartphones and access points. We expect LitePoint to to grow in the zero to 5% range in 2021.Shifting to Industrial Automation. We are on track to grow 30-plus percent for the year. At the macro level, industrial economies are recovering with global PMIs above 50, indicating growing manufacturing investments. At the ground level, we are seeing increasing customer buying driven by economics, quality and lack of available shop floor labor.At UR, revenue grew 32% from Q1 '20 with a notable recovery in China where sales more than doubled in the quarter. Our China performance reflects the compelling value proposition UR offers even in the face of low cost competitors. We not only have the durability to operate in a high intensity production environments where downtime can't be tolerated, but we also offer a unique suite of organic and ecosystem provided software and peripherals to address a wide range of tasks with short deployment times. We're also seeing growth outside of the traditional manufacturing tasks.In the last several quarters, we've seen volume shipments of cobots to perform industrial service tasks such as maintenance of high power transmission lines, valve energized and robotic inspection of wind turbine blades. Together, these two applications account for over 500 installed cobots and this should approximately double in 2021. Both examples highlight the flexibility of UR ARMs and the value in performing dangerous service tasks.MiR also delivered strong results in the quarter, growing 55% year-on-year. A big part of that success has been the new MiR250, which was introduced in March of last year and was our leading seller in Q1. We are also seeing a nice expansion of applications for MiR products. Initially most applications were moving goods to and fro. Last year, we saw a dramatic expansion in the use of MiR robots as a platform for mobile tasks such as disinfected workspaces. And now we're seeing growing use in the conveyor market, where our mobile platform replaces fixed conveyors. This provides owners greater flexibility than traditional fixed conveyor system and allows them to reconfigure their factory on the fly as production requirements dictate.Although, both UR and MiR our expanding range of plug-and-play apps now totaling over 430 in our UR plus MiRGo ecosystem shortens the deployment time and increases the addressable market for cobots, adding additional growth factors for us. But we're not firing on all cylinders in IA yet. At AutoGuide, we have lowered our expectations for 2021. This year, we will focus on expanding existing customer deployments, while we complete a series of engineering projects designed to scale and win new customers in the future. While this is surely a reset at our AutoGuide plan, we remain confident in the potential of the nascent market for high payload autonomous mobile robots and our ability to leverage AutoGuide's unique product architecture to deliver differentiated value to this growing market.Rolling it all up, the demand environment in our Test businesses has strengthened dramatically since January and the wafer front and equipment forecasts suggest the tester demand over the next few years will continue to grow. In Industrial Automation, UR and MiR are benefiting from their differentiated products and the improving global economy, which puts us on track for a total IA Group revenue growth of 30-plus percent for the year.Our employees are doing a great job and our operating model is delivering strong financial profits and free cash flow. And finally, I'd like to recognize and thank our Board Chair Roy Vallee, who will be retiring next month after 20 years on the Teradyne Board. Roy's leadership, integrity and wise counsel have been invaluable to me and the executive team, and we all wish him the best in his future pursuits.Sanjay will now take you through the financial details. Sanjay?Sanjay Mehta -- Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Mark. Good morning, everyone. Today I'll provide details on our Q1 results, offer additional color on the operating environment, along with our plans to address the very strong demand environment and describe our Q2 outlook. During the appropriate sections, I'll provide some full year expectations. Now to Q1, first year, sorry, first quarter, sales were $782 million with non-GAAP EPS of $1.11. Non-GAAP gross margins were 59.1% and our non-GAAP operating expenses were $230 million, above our high guidance due to high variable compensation and G&A expenses. Non-GAAP operating profit rate was 29.6%. We had two 10% customers in the quarter. Tax rate, excluding discrete items for the quarter was 14.75% on both the GAAP and non-GAAP basis.Looking at the results from a business unit perspective, SemiTest revenue was $528 million, was up 9% from Q1 '21. SOC revenue was $420 million, up from prior year driven by strength in compute, industrial and automotive markets, offset by decline in our mobility shipments. Memory revenue was $108 million, up from prior year, driven by strength in Flash final test segment. System Test group had revenue of $133 million, which was up 14% year-over-year. This was driven by $95 million in storage test sales including HDD and SLT solutions and $38 million in defense and aerospace and production board test. At LitePoint, revenue of $41 million was above plan, but down about 6% from prior year due to lower cellular test shipments.Looking at our Test portfolio overall. We're very optimistic about the market and technology trends unfolding over the mid-term. The growing attach rate of electronics across the economy, the increase in complexity of those devices and significantly faster refresh rates for many of these complex devices benefit all of our Test businesses. Looking at a significant example, the increasing number of companies creating high performance processors to serve a growing range of end applications, each with unique performance and design cycles is driving an estimated doubling of the compute portion of the SOC test market this year compared with 2018. We've designed our UltraFLEXplus platform to serve this growing market and are having early success. This trend has complementary impacts on Memory and SLT markets as well.Now to Industrial Automation. Given 2020 was a contraction year, I'll provide revenue metrics comparing Q1 '21 results with Q1 '20 and Q1 '19. Industrial Automation revenue was $80 million, was up 33% year-over-year and 21% over Q1 '19. Q1 '21 was a record for the seasonally soft first quarter of the year. U.S. and Europe represented over 70% of our IA revenue in the first quarter. As Mark noted, strength in China for UR, I'll add that we saw the IA group revenue in China more than double year-over-year and grow greater than 50% over Q1 '19.UR sales were $66 million in Q1, up 32% year-over-year and 15% over Q1 '19. MiR sales were $14 million, up 55% from both Q1 '20 and Q1 '19. Sales increased in every region over Q1 '20. In addition to the success of MiR250 that Mark noted, we also are starting to see a positive shipment trend toward higher payload MiR500 and MiR1000 models, which should improve our ASPs over time. Demand at both UR and MiR continues to improve as the global economy recovers and companies work to add production capacity.The opportunity of automation is growing. Our IA portfolio is solving problems for companies such as improving economics with a typical ROI of approximately one year addressing labor shortages experienced by manufacturing and warehousing firms and adding supply chain resilience over the long term. From a financial perspective in IA, we continue to lean into engineering, ecosystem and distribution investments to expand the range of applications in our IA products address and extend our global distribution reach.Our goal in the short term is to balance investments with sales growth in order to deliver an annual IA Group operating profit of between 5% and 15%. However, given the reset, Mark described at AutoGuide, we now expect AG revenues of less than $10 million in 2021 and AG will not be profitable in '21. As a result, at the IA Group level, we expect we'll operate above breakeven in '21, but below that target profit range. We do expect both UR and MiR each operate above the Rule of 40 in 2021. That is the some of the operating profit growth will be over 40. We continue to have confidence in our IA growth over the mid-term as articulated in our January earnings model update and expect the overall group to grow revenue over 30% in 2021.Shifting to supply, as Mark noted, the Test market size has increased significantly across the board. From a supply perspective, we are dealing with increasing lead times and cost increases, predominantly in the Semiconductor area. Given the significant demand increase and the challenging supply environment, we are experiencing some shipment delays. This is most acute in the automotive and industrial tester markets where demand is significantly outstripping supply. We are working with our customers on a daily basis to minimize the impact of these delays. We see this challenge accelerating into the third quarter, the supplier lead times increasing.I appreciate the incredible pace of our operations team and partners around the world have operated for at over a year and continue to be impressed with their efforts to meet the needs of our customers. To sustain that pace and create a more resilient operation, we're continuing to invest in manufacturing capacity around the world. This includes qualifying redundant suppliers, production sites for critical components and redundant manufacturing capacity at new locations.Shifting to the balance sheet and cash flow. Our cash and marketable securities at the end of the quarter totaled $1.43 billion. We had $1 million in negative free cash flow in the quarter and spent $45 million and $17 million on buybacks and dividends, respectively. To date, $67 million of the convertible bondholders have elected to convert early and in Q1 we paid $51 million of it to the bondholders. Regarding the buyback, we plan to increase our daily buying throughout the year and expect to purchase a minimum of $600 million in 2021 as noted in January.The relatively low volume of buybacks in Q1 was planned for three reasons. First, recall Q1 is a seasonally high use of cash where we typically pay out a variable compensation and ramp-up our prepayments to support increased Q2 test production. Second, we wanted to understand how much of our convertible debt would be redeemed in Q1. Third, we wanted to confirm the global recovery from the pandemic remained on track.Now to Q2, as you've heard this morning, customer demand is strong and in nearly all parts of the business, our guidance assumed that will continue to be successful dealing with the numerous material shortages we noted earlier and that we won't see additional pandemic-related issues. With that said, sales in Q2 are expected to be between $1.01 billion and $1.09 billion with non-GAAP EPS in a range of $1.62 to $1.83 on 177 million diluted shares. The second quarter guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and the non-cash imputed interest on the convertible debt.Second quarter gross margins are estimated at 58%. Opex is expected to run at 23% to 25% of second quarter sales. The non-GAAP operating profit at the midpoint of our second quarter guidance is 34%. Regarding opex for the full year, we now expect opex will grow 17% to 19% in 2020. Note that this is up from our January plan for 2021, where we guided growth over 2020 at 8% to 10%. The increase from January in order of magnitude is in three general categories. One, higher revenue driving higher estimated variable compensation and higher engineering costs related to mitigating supply constraints. Two, higher incremental spending to accelerate several engineering projects in Test and IA. And three, higher than expected G&A spending related to legal, insurance and IT costs.As we noted in January and included in the estimate, we expect travel and marketing expenses to increase through the remainder of the year as pandemic restrictions ease. As outlined last quarter, we set our site on reaching $5.25 to $6.75 in EPS by 2024 in our earnings model. In 2021, we expect our largest end-market SemiTest to grow 14% at the estimated midpoint above the estimate in our earnings model. Combined with industrial end markets recovering from the pandemic slump, these data points reinforce that our mid-term earnings plan is on the solid foundation. We update our earnings model each January. In our next update, we'll look closely at both the WFE forecast and Test growth rates.To sum up, the demand environment across nearly all of our markets remain strong and we're working closely with our suppliers and customers to expand shipments and minimize the impact of material shortages. We've had an outstanding start to the year and we are on a path to healthy sales growth and profit growth for 2021. At the midpoint of our Q2 guidance, we'll see sales grow 19% and non-GAAP EPS grow 21% above the first half of 2020, which itself was a record. We are well on our way to achieving our mid-term revenue and earnings goals we set in our new earnings model.With that, I'll turn things back to Andy.Andrew Blanchard -- Vice President, Corporate RelationsThanks, Sanjay. April, we'd now like to take some questions. And as a reminder, please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.