  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Qualcomm second-quarter and fiscal 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, April 28, 2021. The playback number for today's call is 877-660-6853. International callers, please dial 201-612-7415. The playback reservation number is 13718356. I would now like to turn the call over to Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, vice president of investor relations. Mr. Lopez-Hodoyan, please go ahead.

 



Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Today's call will include prepared remarks by Steve Mollenkopf, Cristiano Amon, and Akash Palkhiwala. In addition, Alex Rogers and Don Rosenberg will join the question-and-answer session. You can access our earnings release and the slide presentation that accompany this call on our Investor Relations website. In addition, this call is being webcast on qualcomm.com, and a replay will be available on our website later today. During the call, we will use non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G, and you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website. We will also make forward-looking statements, including projections and estimates of future events, business or industry trends, or business or financial results. Actual events or results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.Please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent 10-K, which contain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. And now, to comments from Qualcomm's chief executive officer, Steve Mollenkopf. 

 



Steve Mollenkopf -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mauricio, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. When we reported Q2 just one year ago, we were in the early stages of the pandemic. Much has happened since then, including many things that will define our future well beyond this past year. One of the undeniable things we have experienced and at an accelerated pace is the importance and reliance global citizens have on robust connectivity and the need for low-power, high-performance devices. This has reinforced and amplified our mission. Sitting here in San Diego today, we are optimistic about what we see on the horizon. Yet while the pandemic impacted nearly everyone at the same time last year, the experience today is very different depending on where you are in the world. In particular, I want to acknowledge our employees, customers, and partners in India. You and your families are in our thoughts, and we are here to support you through this very challenging time. Of the many things that have impressed me during my 26-year career at Qualcomm, at the top of the list is how our company mobilized in the past year, leading to strong results like we reported today. Our fiscal second-quarter non-GAAP earnings of $1.90 per share exceeded the high end of our guidance driven by higher licensing revenues and solid performance in our chipset business, representing non-GAAP revenue and EPS year-over-year growth of 52% and 116%, respectively.

 



 Despite the backdrop of a challenging environment, these results and our guidance reflect the strength of the company and the importance of our technologies, not only to the mobile industry but across many industries. Several years ago, we put in place a strategy to lead in 5G, which today is delivering results beyond our expectations. Even this fiscal year with all the unusual challenges, we are on track to deliver results better than what we expected when we started the fiscal year. As exciting as our current performance is, I cannot underestimate the long-term opportunity for Qualcomm and how well-positioned the company is, where we have a unique opportunity to exceed our success in handsets as industries adopt the wireless road map. This enviable position is what I find most rewarding when looking back over the past seven years. Undeniably, over my tenure as CEO, I dealt with and overcame unprecedented challenges, which I always put in perspective. Our mission and singular focus of inventing breakthrough technologies transforming how the world connects, computes, and communicates is important and hard to do. Our challenges tightened our focus on this mission, and at the core, innovation was always the solution. As a result, Qualcomm enters the 5G era with our whole company stronger and more resilient. Most importantly, we never lost focus on the impact and opportunity digitization will bring to our customers, partners, governments, and consumers worldwide as a result of our collective efforts. Speaking as a soon-to-be former CEO, I believe there is virtually no limit on where Cristiano can lead Qualcomm, the industries he can enter, and the role the company can play in the global ecosystem. I am very excited to watch this play out. To all our employees, I thank you for your tireless devotion and commitment to our strong culture and core values. I know it is very exciting for everyone at Qualcomm to witness how our inventions change the lives of billions of people around the world as we know they will. Thank you. I will now turn the call over to Cristiano.Cristiano Amon -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Steve, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. The quarter-end guide reflect the great execution across the company in a very challenging environment and reinforces the significance of our technologies. Our Snapdragon premium and high-tier products, along with our modem-to-antenna RF front end, are the foundation of our 5G handset strategy now and into the future. The expansion of our addressable market in this smartphone tiers has positioned the Snapdragon 800 tier as synonymous with Android flagship mobile experiences. We continue to be the mobile technology platform of choice for these tiers, and this is reflected both in our product performance, as well as our traction with leading smartphone OEMs, such as Samsung, Xiaomi, OPPO, Vivo, and now, Honor. Our latest-generation Snapdragon 888 5G mobile platform has now more than 40 device shipped or announced globally, and we expect to see more than double this number come to market in the coming months from future product announcements. Our highly differentiated position in premium and high tiers, our modem-to-antenna leadership, and the continued transition of Huawei volume to OEMs using our solutions have positioned us to grow faster in smartphones while being able to capture the most significant portion of the revenue opportunity. In RF front end, we continue to see broad and growing adoption of our solutions. 5G leading performance at the component and system level, ease of design, and global reach continue to be key differentiators of our modem-to-antenna solutions. As a reminder, virtually all of our 5G design wins continue to be powered by our RF front-end solutions whether they support 4G, 5G sub-6, or 5G millimeter wave. Beyond smartphones, we're extending our RF front-end solutions in automotive, PCs, mobile hotspots, fixed wireless access in the broad IoT category. Of note, given our design win pipeline and revenue run rates, we are on track to exceed our analyst day RF front-end revenue target of $3.6 billion by fiscal-year '22 with 5G sub-6 and 4G representing the majority of our RF front-end revenues. Additionally, as 5G millimeter wave technology expands into other geographies, we expect significant expansion of our opportunity due to increased silicon content and value. At Mobile World Congress Shanghai in China and in collaboration with China Unicom, ZTE, and the GSMA, we worked with 39 Chinese industry-leading companies to showcase the high performance and rich applications on a live 5G millimeter wave network. This level of collaboration underscores the significant attention to millimeter wave in China and the opportunity ahead beginning in 2022. In automotive, we're growing across telematics, C-V2X, digital cockpit, ADAS, and autonomy, and we're also well-positioned for upcoming general computing in car-to-cloud platforms. We expect to lead in these segments as cloud-connected business models evolve and electrification of the car accelerates. As the digital chassis become one of the most important assets of automakers, we are becoming a leading technology partner for the automotive industry with capabilities across all these domains. Our automotive design win pipeline is up over $1 billion since the end of fiscal '20 to approximately $9 billion today. Along with auto, IoT is becoming a significant growth engine with better-than-anticipated performance across all categories, namely, consumer, networking, and industrial. We achieved our second consecutive quarter of over $1 billion in revenue. Trends such as the enterprise transformation of the home, expansion of broadband, the conversions of personal computing with mobile, the intersection of physical and virtual spaces, and the ongoing digital transformation across many verticals are driving growth in one of the largest SAM expansion opportunities for us. In consumer, as the industry redefines personal computing, we're confident about our growth in Android, Chrome OS, and Windows on Snapdragon where we expect new products with leading NUVIA CPUs by the end of the next calendar year. We're also seeing our early investments in XR platforms reaching scale. And in the growing category of wearables, we believe Snapdragon Sound and Snapdragon Wear will become the leading technology solutions within the Android ecosystem. In networking, we are a leader in WiFi access points in 5G broadband. We're benefiting from the global connectivity required for remote work, school, and play and the migration to WiFi 6 and mesh technologies. Our 5G fixed wireless access solutions are seeing broad adoption globally. Going forward, we also have an opportunity to expand into upcoming private 5G networks and public open RAN. In industrial, we have seen continued adoption of our technologies across the broad industry segments. Key growth areas to name a few include smart energy, tracking, metering, industrial handhelds, retail, automation, and autonomous drones. As connected IoT edge devices get scale and provide access to the data and contextual information that is fueling the exponential growth projections of cloud ecosystems, we're increasingly confident in the long-term growth opportunity for our IoT business. Turning to our licensing business. Our second-quarter results reflect the strength of our unmatched patent portfolio value. We are the global 5G IP leader with more than 130 5G license agreements signed to date, up from over 120 last quarter with all major handset manufacturers around the globe licensed. We continue to develop and patent new essential innovations for future releases of 5G, which we expect to have a longer life cycle than prior generations due to its impact on multiple industries. We believe that our model of early research and development, consistent standards leadership, flexible licensing, and global implementation support will continue to add value to our partners and stockholders for years to come. Overall, we continue to see unprecedented demand across all of our technologies and businesses as the current environment is accelerating the scale of connectivity and processing at the edge. Despite the industrywide semiconductor supply shortage, we're utilizing our scale and working across our entire global supply chain to maximize our ability to capture this opportunity. We expect material improvements by the end of the calendar year due to planned capacity builds and multi-sourcing initiatives. As one of the leading drivers of advanced semiconductor technology platforms, we're also excited to see more foundry investment in the United States consistent with the United States government's strategic priorities. Finally, we're extremely proud of our collaboration with NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory on Ingenuity, the Mars helicopter powered by Snapdragon. Snapdragon made it to Mars and helped power the first-ever autonomous flight on another planet. This is yet another example of our ingenuity. I would now like to turn the call over to Akash.Akash Palkhiwala -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Cristiano, and good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased to report strong second-quarter results with non-GAAP revenues of $7.9 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $1.90, which was $0.15 above the high end of our guidance range. These results reflect year-over-year increases of 52% and 116% in revenue and EPS, respectively, driven by strength across QTL and QCT. In QTL, we recorded revenues of $1.6 billion and EBT margins of 74%, both above the high end of our guidance range. The outperformance was primarily driven by stronger handset shipments, especially in China. In addition, our results include a benefit of approximately $80 million from adjustments to prior-quarter royalty estimates. In QCT, we delivered revenues of $6.3 billion and EBT of $1.6 billion. On a year-over-year basis, revenues were up 53% while EBT grew 137%, delivering on our commitment to increase operating leverage. We achieved the high end of our guidance range with EBT margins of 25%. This reflects our strong operating performance driven by favorable product mix and gross margins, which more than offset a reduction in the orders within the quarter by a global handset OEM. RF front-end revenues increased 39% year over year to approximately $900 million on the strength of our product portfolio across 4G, 5G sub-6, and 5G millimeter wave. 5G millimeter wave products accounted for less than 20% of our second-quarter RF front-end revenues. We expect millimeter wave deployments in other regions, such as China, to be a tailwind for long-term revenue growth. Automotive revenues of $240 million grew 40%, and IoT revenues of $1.1 billion grew 71% on a year-over-year basis as we continue to see strong momentum for our differentiated product portfolio. During the quarter, we completed the acquisition of NUVIA for a purchase price of $1.4 billion before working capital and other adjustments. This acquisition provides us with a strong CPU team with industry-leading expertise in high-performance processors and SoCs. Lastly, we returned approximately $2.3 billion to stockholders during the quarter, consisting of $734 million in dividends and $1.5 billion in stock repurchases. Turning to our global 3G, 4G, 5G handset forecast for calendar 2021. Based on the strength in the first quarter, we have an upward bias relative to our prior estimate of high single-digit year-over-year growth. Our calendar 2021 forecast continues to include an estimate of 450 million to 550 million 5G handsets. Next, I'll summarize our guidance for third fiscal quarter. We now expect a stronger outlook in both QTL and QCT relative to our prior expectations, which we shared last quarter due to several positive tailwinds. We are forecasting revenues of $7.1 billion to $7.9 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $1.55 to $1.75 with year-over-year growth of 53% and 92%, respectively, at the midpoints. In QTL, we expect revenues of $1.35 billion to $1.55 billion, up 39% year over year at the midpoint, with EBT margins of 68% to 72%. Our revenue guidance midpoint is $100 million higher than our previous estimate, reflecting the positive bias in total handset shipments. In QCT, we estimate revenues of $5.8 billion to $6.3 billion and EBT margins of 24% to 26%. At the midpoint, this represents year-over-year revenue growth of 59% and EBT dollar growth of 151%. Our stronger forecast for QCT reflects upside in IoT, design traction in handsets and RF front end, and improved product mix. We are pleased with the success of our diversification strategy as we continue to extend the adoption of smartphone technologies in automotive and IoT. In the third quarter, we expect IoT revenues to increase to $1.3 billion. We anticipate non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses to grow 3% to 4% sequentially, which includes a full-quarter impact of expenses from the NUVIA acquisition and investments to enable additional sourcing for supply. Beyond third quarter, we expect growth to be driven by 5G flagship launches for the holiday season by major OEMs and strong demand across IoT and automotive. In addition, with the continued transition of Huawei handset volume to other OEMs, we estimate QCT's annual addressable handset and RF front-end revenue opportunity to increase by up to $10 billion. Given our strong product portfolio, we are positioned to benefit from this opportunity starting in fiscal '22. Before I finish my prepared remarks, on behalf of all Qualcomm employees, I want to thank Steve for his contributions over the past 26 years and wish him the best for a well-deserved retirement as CEO. During his successful tenure as CEO, he navigated significant challenges to put the company in a strong financial and strategic position. I look forward to working with Cristiano and the rest of the Qualcomm team to build on his vision and capitalize on the opportunities in front of us. Thank you, and I'll now turn the call back to Mauricio.Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Akash. Operator, we are now ready for questions. 