
OperatorGreetings, and welcome to UDR's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Director of Investor Relations, Trent Trujillo. Thank you, Mr. Trujillo. You may begin.Trent Trujillo -- Director of Investor Relations

 



Welcome to UDR's quarterly financial results conference call. Our press release and supplemental disclosure package were distributed yesterday afternoon and posted to the Investor Relations section of our website at ir.udr.com. In the supplement, we have reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure in accordance with Reg G requirements. Statements made during this call, which are not historical, may constitute forward-looking statements.Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be met. A discussion of risks and risk factors are detailed in our press release and included in our filings with the SEC.We do not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements. Although, we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be met. A discussion of risks and risk factors are detailed in our press release and included in our fillings with the SEC.We do not undertake the duty to update any forward-looking statements. When we get to the question and answer portion, we ask that you be respectful of everyone's time. [Operator Instructions] Management will be available after the call for your questions that did not get answer during the Q&A session today. I will now turn the call over to UDR's Chairman and CEO, Tom Toomey.

 



Thomas W. Toomey -- Chief Executive Officer, President and DirectorThank you Trent and welcome to UDR's third quarter 2021 conference call. Presenting on the call with me today are Senior Vice President of Operations, Mike Lacy; and Chief Financial Officer, Joe Fisher who will discuss our results. Senior officers Harry Alcock, Matt Cozad, Andrew Cantor and Chris Van Ens will also be available during the Q&A portion of the call.By third quarter FFOA results achieved high end of our previously provided guidance range and we raised full year Same-Store and FFOA guidance for the fourth time in 2021. But the raise was driven by strong wide-spread multifamily fundamentals. The benefits we are realizing from the platform initiatives and accretive capital allocation decisions. Currently, occupancy remains elevated.Rate growth is as strong as I've seen during my 31-year tenure in the multifamily industry, and we continue to successfully source rental assistance for many residents in need. As we move into 2022, we anticipate that our unique operating acumen and ability to accretively allocate capital across a wide range of markets should continue to differentiate us versus public and private peers.

 



These value creation drivers include: first, our best-in-class Next-Gen Operating Platform, which widens our operating advantages for public and private peers and broadens our acquisition and capital allocation opportunities. The platform focuses on self-service, enhanced resident satisfaction and expanding our controllable operating margin. Through our associates' hard work, we have successfully reduced our on-site staff by approximately 40% since 2018 and rationalized the rest of our cost structure.Both put us in an enviable position as inflationary pressures mount. Platform 1.0 initiatives will continue to yield bottom line benefits through 2022, but we are already looking ahead to a new suite of initiatives that will drive additional revenue growth and margin expansion. Mike will provide further details in his commentary.And second, our market selection and capital allocation. Year-to-date, we have sourced nearly $1.2 billion of equity at an attractive cost and $300 million of property sales at favorable cap rates to accretively acquire nearly $1.5 billion of high-quality multifamily communities in desired markets. These acquisitions are outperforming initial expectations due to strong market rent growth, proximity benefit for sourcing the deal next door and the implementation of our numerous and repeatable capital allocation value-creating drivers.While business conditions are as strong as we've ever experienced, sorted regulatory restrictions continue to limit our ability to fully capture the economic benefits of our current demand trends. Still the regulatory environment continues to slowly trend in our favor, and we expect to recapture deferred income resulting from emergency restrictions as we move through 2022. Moving on. Earlier this month, we published our third annual ESG report. In it, we summarized the company's progress toward its ESG goals, introduced enhanced greenhouse gas emissions and energy-use reduction targets and highlighted UDR's culture as well as the support provided for our associates and residents during the COVID-19 pandemic.Our actions resulted in UDR being named the Number one ESG performer in 2021 GRESB survey among publicly listed residential companies worldwide with a score of 86. I thank GRESB for their recognition of UDR as a global leader in sustainability and our teams for the ongoing ESG progress we continue to make. In closing, our success is driven by many factors, but a key one remains UDR's innovative and adaptive culture.This insight was recently validated in our biannual associate engagement survey, which was conducted following the implementation of Platform 1.0. Primary takeaways from the 97% of the associates that participated included: first, to our engagement and enablement scores are well above the norm for high-performing companies at 80%; second, 94% of the respondents felt a strong sense of culture; third, nearly 90% feel those with diverse backgrounds can succeed at UDR. Thank you to our associates across the country who shared honest and open feedback as we continue to improve our business practices, which enhance our status as well as being recognized as an ESG industry leader. With that, I will turn the call over to Mike.Michael Lacy -- Senior Vice President of Property OperationsThanks, Tom. Strong demand for multifamily housing, coupled with our operating platform advantages, led to all-time high occupancy, accelerating rate growth and significantly reduced concessions during the third quarter. These trends have persisted thus far in the fourth quarter, postponing typical seasonality to mid- to late-October or two to three months later than would be normal.To begin, strong Same-Store results supported third quarter FFOA per share at the high end of our previously provided guidance range. Key components of our 5.3% and 6.3% year-over-year Same-Store revenue and NOI growth included weighted average occupancy of 97.5%, 200 basis points higher than a year ago, Effective Blended Lease Rate Growth of 8.2%, which sequentially accelerated by 730 basis points versus the second quarter. Year-over-year, other income growth of 5.1%.Traffic that averaged 35% above pre-COVID levels as we continue to open the prospective resident funnel with our Next-Gen Platform and drive additional pricing power and annualized turnover of 54%, which declined by more than 1,100 basis points versus a year ago and was approximately 1,000 basis points below our historical third quarter turnover rate, driven by strong demand. Sequential Same-Store revenue grew 3.6% in the third quarter. And as implied by our improved guidance, we expect sequential Same-Store revenue growth to be positive in the fourth quarter as well.Regarding key operating metrics for October, occupancy remains elevated and has averaged 97.1% as we continue to see robust demand well into what is historically a seasonally slow period of time. Our slightly lower sequential occupancy as compared to our all-time high third quarter reading has done by design as we've continued to drive rate growth to strengthen our 2022 rent roll. Our 2.6% anticipated earning 2022 is in line with our highest earning over the past decade and is approximately 150 basis points higher than our average earning between 2016 and 2019.Currently, our weighted average loss to lease is in the low teens. We are capturing this upside by driving rental rate higher, which has led to Blended Lease Rate Growth of roughly 11.5% in October or 330 basis points above what we achieved in the third quarter. Roughly 15% of our NOI comes from markets that presently have some form of regulatory restriction on renewal rate increases, but we are utilizing unique UDR attributes such as our various other income initiatives to drive revenue growth. We believe we have an extended runway to capture additional embedded rent growth throughout the fourth quarter and into 2022. Next, concessions have virtually evaporated and are only being used in select submarkets and at a handful of UDR communities in the San Francisco Bay Area, Downtown LA and the 14th Street Quarter in Washington, D.C.Our strategy of offering upfront concessions and maintaining gross rents during the pandemic is playing out as expected. Residents are already accustomed to paying full rent, which translates into better pricing power and higher retention at renewal. As a reminder, in the fourth quarter, we will anniversary peak COVID concession levels of 3.5 to four weeks on new leases. As such, and with only nominal concessions today, we are poised to capture rent growth at a 7% to 8% above market growth, which translates into mid- to high-teens expected new lease rate growth during the fourth quarter. Last, we've continued to realize broad-based strength across our portfolio in October.Our Sunbelt communities, which comprise approximately 25% of NOI, have been generating better than 20% year-over-year market rent growth, while harder hit urban centers have risen sharply off the bottom. It will take time for these market trends to show up in our reported results due to our lease expiration schedule, but 20 of our 21 markets now have rents above pre-COVID levels. The San Francisco Bay Area, our sole laggard, should join this group in the next couple of quarters. Moving on. Our success as a first mover in accessing rental assistance programs continue to benefit our collections. And during the third quarter, we reversed $3 million of our cumulative bad debt reserve.Year-to-date, we have sourced more than $19 million in assistance for residents in need with nearly $10 million of this coming during the third quarter. We have another $11 million of applications in process. Additionally, we are finding early success securing funds from former residents in California and the state of Washington whose unpaid balances were previously written off.Due to our outreach programs, former resident balances totaling over $2.5 million are in the rental assistant application process or have excess funds. We hope to get more former California and Washington residents to apply during the first quarter while also participate in new programs such as the one the New York recently introduced. Next, we have fully wrote out Version 1.0 of our Next Generation Operating Platform across all of our markets. We believe the self-service model we have implemented over the past three years is unique in our industry and the numbers prove this out.Since the second quarter of 2018, we have permanently reduced headcount at our communities by 40% on average, thereby providing a strong hedge against elevated inflationary pressures. Realized controllable expense growth has been 360 basis points below the peer average over the last three years, which has driven our controllable operating margin 250 basis points above what a company at our average rent level would expect to produce. Delivered products and services in the formats, our residents prefer as exhibited by a 24% increase in our resident satisfaction score and an overall 97% usage rate for self-guided prospective resident tours.Generated the best Same-Store revenue growth in roughly 45% of the markets we share with peers versus a 30% average win rate among the peer group. And generated more than $15 million of incremental NOI on our legacy communities with another $5 million expected through 2022. In addition, we have a demonstrated ability to consistently drive outsized growth at the communities we acquired by implementing our platform and other unique value creation initiatives. Thus far, we have expanded the weighted average yield on our nearly $1 billion of third-party acquisitions from 2019 by 55 basis points. For the roughly $2.5 billion of third-party acquisitions we completed between 2019 and 2021, we have, on average, grown revenue by 14% and NOI by 20% compared to the prior owner. Reduced controllable operating expenses per unit by 7% and expanded our controllable operating margin by 400 basis points.I credit Harry and our transaction team for finding acquisitions where we can create value through our platform capabilities. In our view, Platform 1.0 has been a game changer, but we are not done. Our innovation team, which is comprised of various UDR leaders continues to explore and implement a variety of new initiatives that should drive elevated revenue growth and margin expansion in the years to come. These initiatives rely on advanced data analytics and include reduced days vaca, better identifying and retaining more profitable residents, further rationalizing our cost structure, optimizing our price engine and increasing resident satisfaction. While too early to give specifics, we believe these initiatives could potentially dwarf the economic benefits of Platform 1.0.We look forward to updating you on our progress as we roll out these value-creating initiatives. Looking ahead, we are excited to close out a stronger-than-expected 2021 and move on to 2022. I want to thank my colleagues for their unwavering commitment to changing and improving the way we do business. Our culture rewards innovation, and I'm excited for our next steps as we continue to evolve and succeed. And now I'll turn the call over to Joe.Joseph D. Fisher -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Mike. The topics I will cover today include our third quarter results and our improved outlook for full year 2021, a summary of recent transactions in capital markets activity and a balance sheet and liquidity update. Our third quarter FFO as adjusted per share of $0.51 and achieved the high end of our previously provided guidance range and was supported by strong Same-Store revenue growth and accretive transactions. For the fourth quarter, our FFOA per share guidance range is $0.52 to $0.54.The $0.02 per share or 4% sequential increase at the midpoint for continued positive sequential Same-Store NOI growth and accretion from recent capital allocation activities. When combined with our year-to-date results, this positive momentum supported the increases to our full year 2021 FFOA and Same-Store guidance ranges. We now anticipate full year FFOA per share of $2 to $2.02 with the midpoint representing a $0.02 or 1% increase from prior guidance. This increase is driven by a $0.02 benefit from a 75 basis point midpoint improvement in Same-Store NOI growth, a $0.5 benefit from accretive transaction activity offset by $0.5 from increased G&A expense.For Same-Store guidance, we are now forecasting full year 2021 revenue growth of positive 1% to 1.5% with concessions on a cash basis and negative 1% to negative 0.5%, with concessions on a straight-line basis. This difference is primarily due to the residual impact of concessions amortizing during 2021 that were granted in 2020. Additional guidance details, including sources and uses expectations, are available on Attachments 14 and 15-D of our supplement. Next, a transactions update. Our gross 2021 acquisition activity is on pace to total approximately $1.5 billion.During the quarter and subsequent to quarter end, we accretively acquired seven communities for $900 million and sold one community for $126 million. Two of our recently completed acquisitions were sourced from our DCP portfolio, illustrating the embedded optionality we have with these investments. One of these DCP acquisitions was partially funded through the issuance of OP units, demonstrating our ability to utilize a variety of accretive capital sources. Most of our 2021 acquisitions have been in markets that our predictive analytics framework identified as desirable.Nearly all are located proximate to other UDR communities, all have been match-funded with attractively priced sources of capital. As Mike discussed, we can generate outsized yield expansion at these communities through our multiple value creation drivers, which enhance year one yields as well as future growth. Please refer to yesterday's release for additional details on recent transactions. Moving on. Our investment-grade balance sheet remains liquid and fully capable of funding our capital needs. Some highlights include: first, during the quarter, we settled approximately 11.4 million shares of common stock under previously announced forward equity sales agreements for a combined $500 million of proceeds which we used to equitize completed transactions.During and subsequent to quarter end, we entered into forward sale agreements for approximately six million shares of common stock for a combined $320 million of future expected proceeds. We anticipate using these funds on accretive acquisitions, DCP investments and land site opportunities, which we expect to close in the coming quarters. Second, we have only $290 million of consolidated debt or less than 1.5% of enterprise value scheduled to mature through 2025 after excluding amounts on our credit facilities and our commercial paper program. Our proactive approach to managing our balance sheet has resulted in the best 3-year liquidity outlook in the sector and the lowest weighted average interest rate among the multifamily peer group at 2.7%.Last, during the quarter, we expanded our credit facility capacity to $1.3 billion from $1.1 billion, extended its maturity to January 2026 and increased our commercial paper capacity to $700 million from $500 million. We also extended the maturities of our $350 million term loan and $75 million working capital facility to January 2027 and January 2024, respectively. For each of our credit facility, term-loan and working capital facility, we reduced the interest rate spread by five basis points. As of September 30, our financial leverage was 25% on enterprise value, inclusive of joint ventures, and our liquidity totaled $1.6 billion, as measured by our cash and net credit facility capacity and including the future expected proceeds from the settlement of our forward equity sale agreements.Taken together, our balance sheet remains in excellent shape. Our liquidity position is strong, our forward sources and uses remain balanced, and we continue to utilize a variety of capital allocation options to create value. With that, I will open it up for Q&A. Operator?