  OperatorThank you for standing by. Welcome to the fourth quarter fiscal year 2022 CarMax earnings release conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Mr. David Lowenstein, AVP, investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.David Lowenstein -- Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Jess. Good morning. Thank you for joining our fiscal 2022 fourth quarter earnings conference call. I'm here today with Bill Nash, our president and CEO; Enrique Mayor-Mora, our senior vice president and CFO; and Jon Daniels, our senior vice president, CarMax Auto Finance Operations. Let me remind you, our statements today regarding the company's future business plans, prospects and financial performance are forward-looking statements we make pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current knowledge and assumptions about future events that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. In providing projections and other forward-looking statements, the company disclaims any intent or obligation to update them. For additional information on important factors that could affect these expectations, please see the company's Form 8-K issued this morning in its annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2021, filed with the SEC.Should you have any follow-up questions after the call, please feel free to contact our investor relations department at 804-747-0422 extension 7865. Lastly, let me thank you in advance for asking only one question and getting back in the queue for more follow-ups. Bill? Bill Nash -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Great. Thank you, David. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. For the fourth quarter of FY '22, our diversified business model delivered total sales of $7.7 billion, up 49% compared with last year's fourth quarter, driven by growth in average selling prices and wholesale volume gains partially offset by a decline in used units sold. Net earnings was $159.8 million for the fourth quarter and $1.2 billion for the fiscal year. Fourth quarter net earnings per diluted share was $0.98, down 23% from a year ago. During our call in December, we shared that we were pleased with our sales performance at the start of the fourth quarter. However, we began to see pressure after the holidays that continued through the end of the quarter. In our retail business, total unit sales in the fourth quarter declined 5.2% and used unit comps were down 6.5% versus the fourth quarter last year. We believe several macro factors weighed on marketwide used car sales including consumer confidence, vehicle affordability, the omicron COVID surge and lapping stimulus benefits paid in the prior-year period. While the fourth quarter used market was challenging, we are extremely proud of our accomplishments for fiscal 2022, and we believe we are well positioned for continued long-term success across our retail and wholesale business and CarMax Auto Finance. Our full year results reflect significant growth in sales, market share and earnings as well as a solid progress on our strategic initiatives. In fact, our retail market share growth this past year was the highest it has been during my tenure as CEO and is a reflection of our focus on delivering the most customer-centric experience in the industry. Our market share data indicates that our nationwide share of 0 to 10-year-old vehicles grew 13% from 3.5% in calendar 2020 to 4% in 2021. Despite posting a decline in sales during our fiscal fourth quarter, comparing our results to published used vehicle SAAR data suggest that we continue to take share during the quarter. We believe we are well positioned to deliver profitable market share gains in any environment.

 



 Across our retail and wholesale channels, we sold approximately 343,000 cars in total during the fourth quarter, up a 11% versus last year's period. For the fiscal year, we sold approximately 1.6 million retail and wholesale cars combined, up 38% year over year. We continue to be the nation's largest buyer of vehicles from consumers. We bought approximately 324,000 cars from consumers during the quarter, up 69% versus last year's period. For the fiscal year, we bought approximately 1.4 million cars from consumers, up 95% year over year. Self-sufficiency continued to be strong during the fourth quarter, remaining above 70%. We reported fourth quarter retail gross profit per used unit of $2,195, up $109 per unit versus the prior-year period. With used car prices remaining elevated, we chose to pass along some of our self-efficiency acquisition cost savings to consumers via lower prices. We believe we struck the right balance between covering inflationary costs, maintaining margin and keeping our vehicles more affordable. Our approach reflects our continuation of our commitment to doing what's right for the customer, which ultimately drives the growth of our business. Wholesale unit sales were up 43.8% from the fourth quarter last year, and gross profit per unit was $1,191 compared to $990 a year ago. The strength in wholesale units was primarily driven by the ongoing success of our instant online appraisal offering. Wholesale valuations remained historically high during the quarter, which supported margin relative to the fourth quarter last year. CarMax Auto Finance or CAF delivered income of $194 million, up from $188 million during the same period last year. In a few minutes, Jon will provide more detail on customer financing and CAF contributions, but at this point, I'd like to turn the call over to Enrique, who will provide more information on our fourth quarter financial performance. Enrique?Enrique Mayor-Mora -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Bill, and good morning, everyone. Total gross profit was $711 million, up 11% from last year's fourth quarter. This increase was driven primarily by wholesale vehicle margin of $177 million, which was up 73%. The continued growth of the wholesale business is providing us with a strong gross profit lever. Used vehicle margin of $427 million was relatively flat over last year's fourth quarter, with the decrease in units largely offset by an increase in margin per unit. Other gross profit was $107 million, down 4% from last year's fourth quarter. This decrease reflected a $33 million decline in service profit primarily due to the deleverage driven by the reduction in sales and the staffing and efficiency impacts from the omicron COVID surge in the fourth quarter. Our intent continues to be to operate service-as-a-profit center, which from quarter to quarter can be impacted by sales trends and staffing disruptions. Partially offsetting this decline was favorability in EPP and third-party finance fees as well as $20 million of margin contribution from admins. EPP grew by $6.3 million or 5% year over year for the quarter, with penetration stable at approximately 60%. This favorability was driven by an $11 million year-over-year net benefit from the recognition of profit sharing revenues and adjustments to our cancellation reserves. Recall from our second quarter call in September, one of our providers implemented a timing shift in their performance period for profit sharing revenues. All of our providers now utilize the same timing, which aligns recognition as applicable to our fourth quarter. Third-party finance fees improved by $4.7 million with income of $1.8 million, compared to a cost of $2.9 million last year. This improvement was driven by lower Tier 3 volume compared with last year's fourth quarter. On the SG&A front, expenses for the fourth quarter increased to $621 million, up 23% from the prior-year's quarter due to continued investment in our strategic initiatives and in marketing, the consolidation of Edmunds and growth costs related to the increase in appraisal buys, new stores and customer support at our Customer Experience Centers or CECs. SG&A as a percent of gross profit deleveraged to 87.3% from 79% during the fourth quarter last year. This deleverage was primarily due to the decline in sales that occurred in the quarter. The increase in SG&A dollars over last year was mainly due to three factors. First, a $43 million increase in total compensation and benefits driven by our continued strong ramp in staffing, including proactive staffing in anticipation of tax season and wage increases. Additionally, we had a $16 million increase in annual bonus-related compensation plus the inclusion of admin's payroll this quarter versus a year ago. Partially offsetting this increase was a $42 million decrease in stock-based compensation. Second, a $40 million increase in other overhead. The primary drivers of this increase include investments to advance our technology platforms and strategic initiatives as well as growth-related costs. Third, a $19 million increase in advertising expense through our ongoing plan to drive customer acquisition and amplify the CarMax brand by continuing to build awareness of our omnichannel offerings. For the full year, SG&A as a percent of gross profit was 70.7%, leveraging approximately one point over last year's percentage of 71.6%. Our approach to SG&A and costs heading into next year remains consistent. We will continue to invest in our business. At the same time, we remain committed to ensuring that we are efficient and effective in our spend, and we continue to target areas of focus that we expect will deliver results over time. We expect to require an increase beyond the 5% to 8% range of gross profit growth to lever in FY '23. This is largely driven by the timing of strategic investments and growth-related costs as well as heightened inflationary pressures. While we expect to remain in investment mode over the next few years, we expect our leverage point to go back down after FY '23. Our capital allocation philosophy remains consistent. We will continue to invest in our core business, consider new growth opportunities through investments, partnerships or acquisitions and return excess capital to our shareholders. In regard to our share repurchase program, we repurchased approximately 872,000 shares in the quarter for approximately $102 million. For the full year, we repurchased approximately 4.5 million shares for $561.6 million, and as of March 31, 2022, we had $721.7 million of authorization remaining. As communicated today, our board of directors has expanded our share repurchase authority by $2 billion with no expiration time line. The board's authorization reflects CarMax's ongoing commitment to long-term shareholder value creation through growth and return of capital. For capital expenditures, we anticipate approximately $500 million in FY '23. This increase in spend is driven by long-term growth capacity initiatives for our auction, sales and production facilities in addition to continued investments in technology. In FY '23, we plan to open 10 new locations, including our first three stores in the New York City metro market. Our extensive nationwide footprint and logistics network continue to be a competitive advantage for CarMax, and we remain committed to an appropriate level of investment on these differentiated assets. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Jon.Jon Daniels -- Senior Vice President, CAF Operations Thanks, Enrique, and good morning, everyone. Our CarMax Auto Finance business delivered strong results once again. For the fourth quarter, CAF's penetration net of three-day payoffs was 41% compared with 43.5% last year. Tier 2 increased to 23.7% of used unit sales compared with 21% last year, and Tier 3 accounted for 6.7% of sales compared with 9.5% a year ago. Year-over-year reduction in CAF's penetration is attributed to a larger percentage of customers coming in with outside financing. Our Tier 2 partners continue to provide highly competitive credit offers as they compete for additional volume within the CarMax channel. These strong offers, along with the decrease in conversion in the lower portion of the credit spectrum driven by higher average selling prices and corresponding monthly payments, contributed to the swap and penetration between Tiers 2 and 3. During this year's fourth quarter, CAF's net loans originated was nearly $2.1 billion. The weighted average contract rate charged to new customers was 8.2%, down from 8.5% a year ago and 8.3% in the third quarter. The difference in EPR is primarily a result of the credit mix of customers booking with CAF. CAF income for the quarter was $194 million, an increase of 3% or $6 million from the same period last year. Total interest margin increased $64 million, driven by $42 million in higher interest and fee income from our continued growth in receivables and $22 million in lower interest expense from the past ABS deals that continue to provide value over time. This improvement in CAF's margin and the growth in average managed receivables more than offset a substantial increase in the provision for loan losses, which was a more normalized $54.4 million in the current year's fourth quarter versus $4.6 million in the prior-year's fourth quarter. In the prior-year's fourth quarter, the provision for loan losses benefited from the continued reduction in the reserve that was established at the start of the COVID pandemic. The current quarter's provision of $54 million resulted in an ending reserve balance of $433 million or 2.77% of managed receivables. This is largely consistent with the 2.75% at the end of the third quarter and includes a 3-basis-point adjustment for additional Tier 2 and Tier 3 volume originated by CAF. I also want to take the opportunity to highlight a few of the accomplishments made since our last call regarding our online finance experience. As a reminder, nearly two-thirds of our customers begin their financing process on carmax.com, applying for credit on any vehicle in our inventory or simply a requested dollar amount. Our unique finance-based shopping engine, available to most of our customers, allows for multiple lenders to decision a single customer or co-applicants on our entire inventory to provide a full suite of personalized decisions available at the consumer's fingertips. This tool is incorporated into the search page within carmax.com, allowing the user to sort and filter not only on the vehicles characteristics, but also on important finance terms such as monthly payment and down payment. During the month of March, we further enhanced this experience and are now testing a no-impact-to-your-credit-score feature, along with the streamlined application process that provides real-time credit decisions on our full inventory. We believe that our differentiated multi-lender platform, coupled with these and additional enhancements that are on the horizon, will further strengthen our digital shopping experience. Now, I'll turn the call back over to Bill.Bill Nash -- President and Chief Executive Officer Great. Thank you, Jon. Thank you, Enrique. As I mentioned earlier in this call, I am very proud of how we performed in fiscal 2022. We bought and sold more vehicles than ever before through our retail and wholesale platforms. We've continued to innovate, to aggressively invest in core areas of our business and to pursue new growth opportunities. As a result of these efforts, we've achieved double-digit year-over-year growth in our market share, and we believe we are well positioned to take even more share. We have continued to build out new and enhanced capabilities, and as those capabilities have come to market, we have continued to see positive returns. Some highlights from this year that will have a lasting impact are, first, enabling online self-progression capabilities, currently available to approximately 90% of our customers with full availability for every customer anticipated by the end of this first quarter. Next, leveraging our online instant appraisal offering to buy a record number of cars directly from consumers, which enable us to nearly double our self-sufficiency as we drive -- as well as drive sustainable wholesale unit growth. Also, transitioning CAF's legacy auto loan receivable servicing system to brand-new technology, which provides CAF a modernized foundation for growth and allows us to enhance our customer experience. And finally, rolling out the finance-based shopping capabilities that Jon just described. Our e-commerce engine, combined with our unparalleled nationwide physical footprint, is a key value to our customers and helps us provide what we believe is the best experience in the used car industry. Our ability to offer seamless integration across digital and physical transactions gives us access to the largest total addressable market and is a key differentiator, one that we will continue to enhance. In regard to our fourth quarter online metrics, approximately 11% of retail unit sales were online, up from prior-year's quarter of 5%. Our wholesale auctions remain virtual, so 100% of wholesale sales, which represents 23% of total revenue, are considered online transactions. Total revenue resulting from online transactions was approximately 31%. This is up from 17% in last year's fourth quarter. Approximately 55% of retail unit sales were omni sales this quarter, up from 51% in the prior-year's quarter. In the fourth quarter, we bought approximately 162,000 vehicles from customers through our online instant appraisal. That represents about half of our total buys from consumers. This fiscal year, we bought approximately 707,000 cars through this channel, again, representing roughly half of our total buys from consumers. Going forward, we will continue to evolve our online and in-store capabilities to enable a more seamless experience for our associates and customers. I would like to highlight four key areas of focus for FY '23. First, as Jon mentioned earlier, we're deploying a more sophisticated version of our finance-based shopping capability that enables real-time decisions and offers our customers the ability to prequalify for a loan with no impact to their credit score. Second, adding self-service capabilities to enhance in-store interactions, including appraisals and express pickups. Third, growing vehicle acquisition through attracting new customers and pursuing partnerships as we expand our appraisal offering to dealers and other businesses. And finally, continuing to leverage data science, automation and AI to improve efficiencies and effectiveness across our buying organization, business offices and CECs. Again, we're very proud of the strong results for fiscal '22 as they are in large part due to our relentless focus to provide our customers the best experience in the industry. We are in a strong position moving forward, and we'll continue to invest and innovate to achieve profitable market share growth. During our analyst day last May, we announced long-term targets of achieving 2 million combined retail and wholesale units sold and $33 billion of revenue in FY '26, up from $1.2 million and $19 billion, respectively, during FY '21. Though we don't anticipate updating our targets annually, our strong performance in FY '22 has given us a new perspective on these targets that we believe is appropriate to share at this time. We're revising our FY '26 targets to reflect a range of 2 million to 2.4 million combined units with revenue between $33 billion and $45 billion. These ranges reflect the macro factors we had earlier that could result in ongoing volatility in consumer demand and vehicle pricing. In regard to market share, I'm excited for the future and confident that we will expand it beyond 5% by the end of calendar 2025. Last, but most importantly, I want to thank all of our associates for the work that they do. They are truly the keys to our success. Just yesterday, Fortune Magazine named CarMax as one of its 100 Best Companies to work for, for the 18th year in a row. I'm incredibly proud of this recognition as it is due to our associates' commitment to supporting each other, our customers and our communities every day. I want to thank and congratulate all of our associates. With that, we'll be happy to take your questions.Question and Answer 