
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the AvalonBay Communities First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]Your host for today's conference call is Mr. Jason Reilley, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Reilley, you may begin your conference.Jason Reilley -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Anna, and welcome to AvalonBay Communities First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call.Before we begin, please note that forward-looking statements may be made during this discussion. There are a variety of risks and uncertainties associated with forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ materially. There is a discussion of these risks and uncertainties in yesterday afternoon's press release as well as in the company's Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the SEC. As usual, this press release does include an attachment with definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures and other terms, which may be used in today's discussion. The attachment is also available on our website at www.avalonbay.com/earnings, and we encourage you to refer to this information during the review of our operating results and financial performance.And with that, I'll turn the call over to Tim Naughton, Chairman and CEO of AvalonBay Communities for his remarks. Tim?Timothy Naughton -- Chairman & Chief Executive Officer

 



Okay, great. Thanks, Jason, and welcome to our Q1 call. With me today are Ben Schall, Kevin O'Shea, Matt Birenbaum and Sean Breslin. Ben, Sean and I will provide comments on the slides that we posted last night, and all of us will be available for Q&A afterward. For our prepared comments today, I'll start by providing an overview of Q1 results. Sean will elaborate on operating trends in the portfolio. Our fundamentals have improved materially since beginning of the year, and we'll also review our Q2 outlook. And then Ben will provide some thoughts as to why we believe we are positioned for outsized growth as the recovery and expansion take hold.Now let's turn to results for the quarter, starting on Slide 4. In terms of operating results, it was another tough quarter. Core FFO growth was down by over 18% in Q1. Same-store revenue declined by 9.1% on a year-over-year basis. Given the timing of the pandemic, which began toward the end of Q1 '20, this past quarter will be the toughest year-over-year comp we'll face this year. On a sequential basis, the decline in same-store revenue leveled off at 1.5% from Q4, which compares to a sequential decline of 1.6% in Q4 of '20. And Sean will touch more on the sequential trends in his comments.And then lastly, we completed almost $600 million of development in Q1 at a projected initial yield of 5.6%, well above prevailing cap rates we're seeing in the transaction markets, where cap rates are drifting down to or below 4%. Given the improvement we've seen in fundamentals, we're ramping up the development pipeline and expect to start $650 million this quarter in Q2, with much of that to be match funded with expected dispositions of approximately $500 million in the second quarter.Turning now to Slide 5. As we did last quarter, we thought we'd provide a little more detail on the components of the decline in same-store revenue that we experienced on a year-over-year and a sequential basis. Starting on Slide 5. On a year-over-year basis, this past quarter, about 2/3 of the decline in same-store revenue was a result of lower effective rents driven by a combination of lower lease rents and higher concessions than we saw in Q1 of last year. The rest of the decline was mostly a function of elevated bad debt as uncollectible revenue was just over 3% or roughly 230 basis points higher than last year. The impact of bad debt on a year-over-year same-store revenue basis will be much less over the balance of the year as bad debt initially spiked in Q2 of last year at the onset of the pandemic.

 



Turning to Slide 6. Sequential same-store revenue was down 1.5% in Q1 from Q4. As you can see, it was driven mostly again by lower effective rents but partially offset by 120 bps improvement in occupancy.Turning to Slide 7. We saw a meaningful improvement in like-term rent change during the quarter and continuing into April, with average like-term effective rent improved by 270 basis points versus the Q4 average and improved another 310 basis points above that in Q -- in April versus what we saw in Q1. As you can see in this chart, the pace of improvement has been steady and quite healthy since the beginning of the year. And again, Sean will provide more color on what's driving these trends in his remarks in just a moment. But let me just share one more slide on development performance first before turning over to Sean.Turning to Slide 8. Slide 8 shows that despite the many challenges that faced our business over the last year, the lease-up portfolio is actually performing quite well, with average rents, costs and yields roughly in line with pro forma and is delivering meaningful value with yields well above prevailing cap rates. As a result of this performance and improved operating fundamentals, we are reactivating the pipeline and expect to start 6 communities totaling about $650 million in Q2.So with that, I'll turn it over to Sean to discuss portfolio trends in more detail. Sean?Sean Breslin -- Chief Operating OfficerAll right. Thanks, Tim.Moving to Slide 9. We've seen an acceleration in the trends we spoke about on our last call with physical occupancy continuing to increase during the quarter, now approaching 96%, and average move-in rent value growing steadily over the last 4 months. For April, our month-to-date average move-in rent is roughly 5% above what we experienced in January of this year and approximately 8% below the pre-COVID peak rent we achieved in March of 2020. One point to note when looking at the move-in rent value in this slide and the next couple of slides is that it reflects leases that were signed roughly 4 weeks prior to the move-in date. So it does not reflect the asking rent in each period, which was higher and something I'll address in a few slides.Moving to Slide 10. Improved portfolio performance has been broad-based, with every region experiencing gains in both occupancy and average move-in rent. Southern California is the one region where we're essentially back to pre-COVID occupancy and rent levels, supported by a relatively stable L.A. market and rapidly improving conditions in Orange County and San Diego. In Northern California, performance has steadily improved in the past few months, particularly from an occupancy standpoint, but it suffered the greatest rent decline during 2020. And recent move-ins are still 17% below the pre-COVID peak. The average April move-in rents in our other regions is generally 7% to 8% below the pre-COVID peak, with the exception of Seattle, which is about 11% below its pre-COVID peak rent but has demonstrated very positive momentum the past couple of months.Turning to Slide 11 to address suburban and urban performance trends. Our suburban portfolio is essentially at pre-COVID occupancy now. And the month-to-date average April move-in rent is only 2.5% below the pre-COVID peak we achieved in March 2020. The urban portfolio, however, is still early in its recovery with expected gains in both occupancy and rent still to come. Occupancy has increased by more than 500 basis points from the 2020 low point, but we'll need to pick up another couple of hundred basis points to reach historical norms for stabilized occupancy. Additionally, the average April move-in rent is trending at roughly 18% below the pre-COVID peak rent, driven primarily by New York City, which is about 1/3 of our New York and New Jersey portfolio; and San Francisco, which represents about 1/4 of our Northern California portfolio. The average April move-in rent in each of these 2 markets was roughly 22% below the pre-COVID peak rent.We expect a more rapid recovery in move-in rents over the next couple of quarters as people are called back to the office, urban universities announce on-campus learning and the quality of the environment improves when retail, restaurant, entertainment and other services reopen for in-person experiences. We're starting to see some of that demand already, which is reflected in our asking rents and a point I'll touch on in a couple of slides.Moving to Slide 12. The improvement in average effective move-in rent has resulted from both an increasing average lease rent as depicted in Chart 1 and declining concessions shown in Chart 2. The percentage of leases with the concession exceeded 50% last fall but has trended down to less than 25% for April. And as of this week, only 13% of our available inventory includes a concession, which will support continued growth in our average move-in rent value in future periods.Turning to Slide 13. Our portfolio is well positioned heading into the prime leasing season. First, as I mentioned earlier, we're in a solid position from an occupancy standpoint at almost 96% today, which provides a solid foundation to push rents and absorb some turnover, if needed, to achieve those higher rents. Also importantly, our average asking rent has increased about 13% since the trough point last November and roughly 5% in just the past 4 weeks, which is quite strong and substantially more than historical seasonal norms. Additionally, if you factor in the reduced volume of concessions I mentioned on the last slide, the increase in the average net effective asking rent since the trough point is about 15%. If you look at this relative to our pre-COVID peak rent levels, our current average asking rent is only down about 70 basis points. And if you factor in concessions, net effective asking rents are only about 2% below the pre-COVID peak.Moving to Slide 14 to address our second quarter outlook. We expect core FFO per share of $1.90. For same-store performance, the midpoint of our outlook for year-over-year NOI growth is minus 11.5%, driven by a 5.5% reduction in revenue and an 8.25% increase in operating expenses. The relatively substantial operating expense growth rate is primarily driven by a very difficult comp from Q2 2020 when activity, including move-ins and move-outs, maintenance, etc, was severely limited. And we constrained spend, including hiring, at the onset of the pandemic as shelter-in-place orders took effect. In terms of the sequential road map from Q1 core FFO per share of $1.95 to the Q2 outlook of $1.90, we expect a $0.05 deterioration in same-store NOI, all of which relates to the sequential change in operating expenses as we expect sequential revenue growth to be 0. We also expect a $0.02 improvement in commercial and other residential NOI, which will be offset by a $0.02 increase in overhead and other.Now, I'll turn it to Ben to address the outlook for our business over the next few years. Ben?Benjamin Schall -- President & DirectorThank you, Sean. Supported by this backdrop of improving operating fundamentals, we believe that we are well positioned to generate outsized growth as the economy recharges. As we look to the composition of our existing portfolio, each of the subsegments highlighted on Slide 15 have been impacted in varying degrees during the pandemic, and each have their distinct growth opportunities as we look forward.Our largest segment at 40% of revenue is in what we've called out as other suburban to differentiate it from more densely populated job center suburban markets. This 40% of our portfolio was the least impacted by the pandemic, and our current asking -- our current average asking rent is 6% above the pre-pandemic peak rent we achieved in March of last year. We continue to push asking rents in these submarkets, and concessions have largely been eliminated. Our next largest segment at 28% of the portfolio represents communities and job center suburban markets, including our transit-oriented development. This is like Redmond, Washington; Tysons Corner in Virginia; and Assembly Row in Massachusetts. Operating fundamentals in many of these suburban locations have been more significantly impacted with asking rents still 3% to 4% below pre-pandemic levels and with the continued use of concessions in certain markets. Our expectation is that as people increasingly return to the office and nearby restaurants and as other amenities start to reopen more fully, we will increasingly see prospects that seek out these environments for walkability, ease of transportation and the array of services provided.For our communities and urban environments, we have a mix of core urban, effectively central business districts, and secondary urban, locations like Jersey City, New Jersey; and the Rosslyn-Ballston Corridor in Northern Virginia, which make up 19% and 13% of our portfolio, respectively. As Sean noted, occupancy in our urban portfolio has climbed more than 500 basis points, and rents are trending upward in pretty much all of the urban environments. And this has occurred with urban office usage still at very low levels of less than 20%. As a return to offices starts to gain real momentum this summer and leading up to Labor Day, we do expect a significant rebound in our urban portfolio as in prior cycles. This is a theme that we expect to be true across much of our portfolio. And as shown on Chart 1 of Slide 16, Class A communities, which represent approximately 70% of our portfolio, have historically outperformed early in cycles. We expect similar trends in this recovery, particularly as the traditional higher-income AVB resident is poised to benefit financially as the economy heats up. And while our residents stand to benefit from the recovery, it is also becoming more challenging for those interested in buying a home to afford one, given the acceleration in home prices in many of our coastal markets. Chart 2 on Slide 16 shows this long-term affordability trend and the growing attractiveness of renting versus owning a home in our markets.Turning to Slide 17. The development we currently have under way is also poised to deliver strong future earnings growth as these projects are completed and stabilized. In total, we have $2.3 billion of development that has not yet been stabilized and is projected to generate $134 million of NOI at a 5.7% yield. In total, the development communities only contributed $22 million in annualized NOI as of Q1 of this year, so there's another $112 million in annualized NOI still to come. These developments are primarily in our suburban markets, where we expect to see strong fundamentals as these communities open over the next couple of years. And has been our standard practice, this development activity is substantially match-funded, reducing the capital cost risk associated with the earnings and NAV accretion yet to come.As we anticipate a recharging economy, we are adjusting our capital allocation strategy to ramp up new development starts. As Tim noted, we expect to break ground on as many as 6 new development projects in the second quarter, representing $650 million in new accretive investment, primarily in our suburban submarkets. With total development rights pipeline of $3.1 billion, we anticipate further increases to our development starts in future quarters and are increasing our guidance for total 2021 starts from the $750 million we had indicated on our February call to $1 billion to $1.250 billion as we have the ability to move quickly to capitalize on the improved outlook for fundamentals in our markets. As we look forward, we expect the breadth of our development experience, particularly in the suburbs, from denser wrap developments to garden communities, to townhome and direct entry homes, will allow us to shift capital and adjust our product offering to meet the evolving needs of our targeted customer segments.Switching gears to innovation in our operating business and turning to Slide 18. The team here is now about 3 years into a significant shift in our operating platform, having generated $10 million in annual incremental NOI from our initial initiatives and with the expectation of another $25 million to $35 million of annual NOI from our near-term operating road map. One meaningful example of an initiative already deployed is our early adoption of an artificial intelligence for the management of prospective residents. Our AI leasing agent, Sidney, is available 24/7, 365 days a year and interacts with prospects regarding their questions about our communities, schedules and reschedules tours, follows up post-tour and facilitates the application process. Sidney has sent more than 4 million messages to prospects that would have been handled by an on-site or call center associate in the past. And in addition, Sidney has scheduled almost 100,000 tours at our communities.We continue to invest in our operating platform and are focused on the use of digital platforms and data science to drive operational efficiencies and optimize revenue from our assets. Through initiatives such as the search, application and lease process on our revamped website that we are already launching later this year; the increased rollout of smart access to allow for more automated and self-serve activities, including full self-touring and public access for revenue opportunities; use of data science to optimize our renewal results; and next steps in mobile maintenance to improve efficiency and service. Collectively, we believe we'll enhance operating margins by about 200 basis points through these various initiatives while also providing a more seamless, personalized experience at our communities.Finally, as we look forward, we're excited to further advance AvalonBay's position as a recognized ESG leader among all REITs and within the multifamily sector as highlighted on Slide 19. In addition to setting science-based targets to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by approximately 50% by 2030, we're also one of the first real estate companies to complete an extensive climate resiliency analysis across our portfolio, evaluating each asset across 11 key risk factors. From this analysis, the team is developing asset-specific action plans, and we have also now incorporated the resiliency framework into our go-forward investment and development decisions. We've also established measurable inclusion and diversity goals, focused on achieving gender parity for leadership by 2025 and increasing minority representation and leadership to 20% by 2025 and 25% by 2030. And we are now incorporating these goals into our business unit planning to drive results.More to come later this year as we release our fulsome and industry-leading corporate responsibility report in June and as we continue to reinforce ESG as a differentiator in the eyes of our residents, communities and stakeholders. We're very excited for where we're headed and the growth in front of us.And with that, I'll turn it back over to Tim.Timothy Naughton -- Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerGreat. Thanks, Ben. And just turning to the last slide and to summarize some key points for the quarter, Slide 20. Q1 was a challenging quarter in terms of results. But as I mentioned before, it is expected to be the toughest year-over-year revenue comp we see this year. In addition, the recovery in fundamentals is taking hold in our markets as Sean discussed. And many suburban submarkets are now at or above pre-COVID levels, while the early improvement we're seeing in urban submarkets should gain strength midyear and into the fall as workers return back to the office.And lastly, as Ben mentioned in his remarks, we believe we are very well positioned over the next few years due to a number of factors, including our coastal market footprint, a portfolio that is heavily concentrated in urban and job center urban -- job center infill urban -- infill suburban markets, excuse me, the rising cost of homeownership, healthy performance and a ramp in our development pipeline, margin improvement in our stabilized portfolio due to innovation in the operating model and then lastly, a leadership position in ESG, where the investment we've made over the last several years is paying off in terms of opex savings and stakeholder engagement.So with that, operator, Anna, we'd be happy to open the call for questions.