
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the ANSYS Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. With us today are Ajei Gopal, President and Chief Executive Officer; Nicole Anasenes, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance; and Kelsey DeBriyn, Vice President, Investor and Government Relations. [Operator Instructions]I would now or at this time, I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms. DeBriyn for opening remarks. Please go ahead.Kelsey DeBriyn -- Vice President, Investor and Government Relations

 



Good morning, everyone. Our earnings release, the related prepared remarks document and the link to our second quarter Form 10-Q have all been posted on the homepage of our Investor Relations website. They contain the key financial information and supporting data relative to our second quarter financial results and business update as well as our Q3 and updated fiscal year 2021 outlook and the key underlying quantitative and qualitative assumptions.Today's presentation contains forward-looking information. Important factors that may affect our future results are discussed in our public filings with the SEC, all of which are available on our corporate website. We note that uncertainty regarding the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our performance could cause actual results to differ materially from our projections. Forward-looking statements are based upon our view of the business as of today, and ANSYS undertakes no obligation to update any such information. During this call, we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures, unless otherwise stated. A discussion of the various items that are excluded and reconciliations of GAAP to the comparable non-GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release materials.I would now like to turn the call over to our President and CEO, Ajei Gopal, for his opening remarks. Ajei?Ajei S. Gopal -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Good morning, and thank you for joining us. Q2 was another excellent quarter for ANSYS, where we significantly beat our financial guidance across all our key metrics. I'm particularly pleased with our ACV performance for the quarter, which grew at nearly 23% in constant currency. Our growing momentum from Q4 of 2020 and the first half of this year gives us increased confidence in our business and in our ability to execute against our goals. It is also further validation of our strategy of pervasive simulation, where simulation is used throughout the product development process by engineers in every discipline. That strategy, combined with our best-in-class multiphysics products, our comprehensive go-to-market approach and our deep and lasting customer relationships, has paved the way for our consistent success.The COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve with the uncertainties of the Delta variant making headlines around the world. Despite these uncertainties, our customers are continuing to invest in innovation, R&D and product design to drive their future successes. As such, we are continuing to see demand for ANSYS simulation increase in the marketplace, and our pipeline for the remainder of 2021 is strong. As a result of that continued strength and our track record of execution, we are once, again, increasing our annual guidance for ACV, revenue, EPS and operating cash flow. Nicole will provide more details in just a few minutes. Looking at Q2. All our major geographies performed well, with the Americas leading the way. I'm very proud of our team in India, which came in above our internal plan, despite challenging COVID-19-related conditions in the country. From an industry perspective, high-tech and semiconductors, aerospace and defense, and automotive and ground transportation were our top verticals. We also saw ongoing strength with our enterprise customers. Following the trend of the past two quarters, we saw improved spending with small- and medium-sized customers. While these smaller customers have not yet returned to their pre-pandemic spending levels, the progress we've seen over the past several months gives me added confidence in the future.One of the largest deals of the quarter was with a North American leader in semiconductors. This $39 million multiyear agreement ensures that the company will have the necessary capacity to run five-nanometer and eventually, three-nanometer designs on Ansys Redhawk-SC, our gold standard, powered noise and reliability sign-off solution for digital design. The company has also standardized on ANSYS multiphysics technology across chip, package and system to reduce power consumption, thereby increasing its competitiveness in the marketplace. We also closed a $30 million agreement with a longtime automotive customer. This leader in electric vehicle technology has expanded its use of mechanical, fluids and electromagnetic solutions and has adopted additional ANSYS technologies, including automated design analyses, multibody dynamics and process integration and design optimization. This customer is working with the ANSYS ACE teams to jointly develop workflows for noise and vibration analysis and topology optimization.The company is also using ANSYS Discovery to decrease its simulation backlog and get products to market faster, all the while holding the line on development costs. Just a few weeks ago, we unveiled ANSYS 2021 Release two, which features advances across our multiphysics product line, from structured fluids and electromagnetics, to materials, photonics and embedded software. R2 includes a number of advancements in core physics, simplified workflows and integrated data management. Our solutions are based on our case of experience and cannot be easily duplicated, creating high barriers to entry for potential competitors. While I could spend the entire hour detailing each product's capabilities, today, I will focus on just one key differentiator, which cuts across our entire portfolio, namely scalability.

 



As customer problems become increasingly more challenging, the size of those challenges require simulation software that could scale to unprecedented levels. Throughout our history, ANSYS has been a leader in product scalability and we have extended that leadership in recent releases. Our ability to create high resolution, fluid mechanic simulations with practical turnaround times enables customers to solve next-generation challenges, ranging from rotating machinery, to external aerodynamics, to environmental simulations. four years ago, Ansys FLUENT scaled to nearly 200,000 CPU cores, enabling customers to solve challenging problems faster than ever by calculating billions of cells. To the best of our knowledge, that remains a record for commercial computational fluid dynamics code. This massive scalability has enabled our customer at the Technical University in Eindhoven to solve a complex aerodynamic problem with three billion computational cells with 20 billion unknowns.The most recent advances in Ansys 2021 R2 have sped up parallel mesh generation by 20 times, removing what is often the bottleneck for detailed simulations of transient phenomena, which occur in aerodynamics and gas turbine simulations. That 225 times speed up over the last decade has enabled Ansys customers to reduce simulation time on a full thermal mechanical model from two weeks to 1.5 hours. And now with Ansys 2021 R2, those calculations could take just minutes, leading to improved product reliability as users run more simulations faster. That breakthrough was made possible by doubling the core counts, while reducing the memory required by 40%. In our latest LS-DYNA release, we have significantly improved performance, which enables customers to run transient behavior studies with 28 trillion calculated variables, and that's trillion with a T. That means safer cars and more reliable electronics. A global high-tech customer use Ansys HFSS and our new Ansys Mesh fusion to solve a previously unsolved integrated circuit and packaging problem by scaling across the multi-node HPC cluster with 18 terabytes of RAM and 576 cores.In Ansys 2021 R2, we introduced the Phi Plus measure, which extends mesh fusion to deliver additional speed and capacity. Phi Plus has sped up meshing on PCB plus bondwire package models by 18 times, which will bring new innovations to the 5G, autonomy and industrial Internet of Things market. Ansys semiconductor customers are using next-generation distributed and grid computing techniques to model and solve chips with 2.6 trillion or more devices. Ansys RedHawk-SC set a capacity and performance record in Power Integrity sign-off last year by extracting 66 billion electrical nodes on the design of a GPU and solving it over 2,400 CPUs in a fully distributed manner.In Ansys 2021 R2, our solver performance doubled, enabling customers to sign off even larger chip designs using the same compute resources and run time. Scalability is one of Ansys' many differentiators and is becoming increasingly important to our customers as they develop next-generation products. We believe that our history of product scalability, along with accuracy, ease of use and speed to solution create a difficult environment for any would-be competitor, while giving our users the functionality they need to solve the most challenging product problems. We are continuing to train the next generation of engineers in the use of Ansys solutions by expanding our free offering for students.To date, nearly two million students around the world have downloaded our products. And just a few weeks ago, we launched an additional offering for students to download our electronics desktop and to enroll in Ansys innovation courses for training. These students now have access to our leading electronics products, including HFSS, Maxwell and Icepak to train them in developing the products of tomorrow. And thanks to our new partnership, Cornell University will design and develop online training courses with real-world applications from Ansys.Moving to partnerships. I'm excited to announce that we have expanded our work with TSMC to include new certifications for Ansys RedHawk and Ansys Totem. These new certifications for power network extraction, power integrity and reliability, signal electromigration and transistor level custom designs enable joint customers to meet critical power, thermal and reality standards for next-generation product applications. Ansys continues to be recognized for our inventive approach to engineering technology. I'm proud that for the third year in a row, Fast Company has named us one of the best places to work for innovators. I'm even more excited that five of my colleagues have been recognized with the prestigious Women of Color STEM Awards. These awards showcase the outstanding scientific and engineering achievements of women around the world, and Ansys is proud of these pioneers who serve as an inspiration for us all. Turning to our Environmental, Social and Governance initiatives. I'm pleased that MSCI has upgraded our ESG rating to AA, naming us a leader in the software and services industry. MSCI cited Ansys' comprehensive talent pipeline relative to our peers, our focus on business ethics and our capabilities in helping customers to innovate in areas such as clean technologies.To summarize, Q2 was another great quarter for Ansys and a further validation that our pervasive simulation strategy is resonating with the market. Our strong sales pipeline, our ongoing momentum with enterprise customers, the resurgence of small and medium businesses and our continued leadership across our product portfolio give me further confidence in our ability to meet our newly increased outlook for 2021.And with that, I'll turn the call over to Nicole.Nicole Anasenes -- Senior Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Ajei. Good morning, everyone. Let me take a few minutes to add some additional perspective on our second quarter financial performance and provide context for our outlook and assumptions for Q3 and 2021. Our strong Q2 results reflect an outstanding execution across our business, which yielded revenue, operating margin and EPS all above our Q2 guidance. As Ajei mentioned, Q2 ACV was especially strong and exceeded our expectations. Both our large enterprise customer and our small and medium-sized customer spending patterns performed better than expected, and our growth during the quarter was broad-based. Now let me discuss some of our Q2 financial highlights. Q2 ACV was $430.5 million and grew year-over-year, 25% or 23%, in constant currency. We saw strong performance across customer types, geographies and industries. ACV from recurring sources represented 82% of the total. Q2 total revenue was $452.6 million and grew 16% or 14% in constant currency, which exceeded the high end of our guidance.Like ACV, Q2 revenue growth was from across the business. In the first half of 2021, we had strong top line performance, with ACV and revenue both growing double digit, 16% and 18%, respectively. We closed the quarter with a total balance of GAAP deferred revenue and backlog of $927.1 million, representing a 10% increase over last year's second quarter balance.During the quarter, we continued to manage our business with fiscal discipline. This yielded a solid second quarter gross margin of 90% and an operating margin of 41.7%, which is better than our Q2 guidance. Operating margin was positively impacted by revenue performance above our guidance as well as the timing of investments. The result was second quarter EPS of $1.85, which was also above the high end of our guidance. Similar to operating margin, EPS benefited from strong revenue results and the timing of investments. Our effective tax rate in Q2 was 19%, the tax rate we expect for the remainder of 2021. Our cash flow from operations in Q2 totaled $118.9 million, which benefited from strong collections, driven by a reduction in the percent of receivables past due and was partially offset by differences in the timing of tax payments as compared to Q2 2020. We ended the quarter with $958.2 million of cash and short-term investments on the balance sheet. Now let me turn to the topic of guidance. We continue to build confidence in our outlook for the year. Coming off our strong finish in Q2, we are initiating guidance for Q3 and increasing our ACV, revenue, EPS and operating cash flow outlook for the full year. This increase reflects the strong broad-based financial performance in the second quarter and our current sales pipeline.For the third quarter, we expect revenue in the range of $400 million to $425 million and EPS in the range of $1.22 to $1.39. As I mentioned, for the full year, we are raising our ACV, revenue, EPS and operating cash flow outlook. We are increasing our full year ACV outlook to be in the range of $1.8 billion to $1.845 billion. This represents growth of 11.4% to 14.1% or 10.8% to 13.5% in constant currency. We are raising our full year ACV guidance to reflect the Q2 performance, which exceeded our expectations and our increased confidence in the full year pipeline. This raise was offset by a few million dollars of currency headwinds. As a result, we are raising the midpoint of our ACV guidance by $30 million, which translates to an increase of 2.7 points of constant currency growth compared to our May guidance. As a reminder, it is best to look at full year AVC growth as quarterly growth can be variable. As we mentioned in May, ACV quarterly growth rates in 2021 will vary with Q2 and Q3 being the strongest two quarters.Based on our performance in Q2, we expect Q2 to have the highest ACV growth rate for the year. As a reminder, we still expect Q4 growth to be muted given the Q4 2020 growth comparison. Consistent with prior years, the dollar value of ACV will be highly skewed toward the fourth quarter. We expect revenue to be in the range of $1.840 billion to $1.890 billion, which is growth of 8.5% to 11.5% or 7.3% to 10.2% in constant currency. Similar to our ACV guidance, this increase reflects our strong Q2 revenue performance and increased confidence in our full year pipeline, offset by a few million dollars of currency headwind. As a result, we are raising the midpoint of our revenue guidance by $23 million, which translates to constant currency growth of 1.5 points higher than the midpoint of our May guidance. As you know, ASC 606 introduces revenue growth volatility within the quarters. However, on a full year revenue basis, revenue growth is less variable.In the second half of 2021, we expect revenue growth to be impacted by the year-over-year compare and mix of business. We are increasing our full year EPS and now expect EPS to be in the range of $6.85 to $7.15. This increase incorporates our strong Q2 performance and is offset by a few cents of currency headwinds. It is worth noting that some of our strong Q2 EPS performance was driven by the timing of investments that moved from Q2 to the second half of the year.Now let me turn to our full year operating cash flow guidance. We are increasing our 2021 outlook to a range of $495 million to $535 million. This increase is driven by stronger collections expected during the year and continued improvement in payment terms toward pre-pandemic levels. We are pleased with our strong first half in operating cash flow. But as a reminder, second half cash flow is most impacted by whether large Q4 deals closed near the beginning or the end of the quarter. For modeling purposes, we're expecting a third quarter operating margin in the range of 34% to 36.5%. And for the full year, we continue to expect operating margin to be in the range of 40% to 41%. Further details around specific currency rates and other assumptions that have been factored into our outlook for Q3 and 2021 are contained in the prepared remarks document. I would like to thank the Ansys team for their continued commitment to our customers and fellow colleagues during this prolonged time of uncertainty.The team delivered exceptional execution during the quarter, which drove our strong Q2 financial performance. The combination of best-in-class execution, with a strong recurring business model and growing sales pipeline, sets us up well to deliver on our 2021 outlook as well as our longer-term financial objectives.Operator, we will now open the phone lines to take questions.