  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, welcome to Cognizant Technology Solutions' Q1 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn this conference over to Mr. Tyler Scott, senior director of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir. Thank you. You may begin.Tyler Scott -- Senior Director of Investor Relations Thank you, operator and good afternoon, everyone. By now you should have received a copy of the earnings release and the investor supplement for the company's first-quarter 2021 results. If you have not, copies are available on our website, cognizant.com. The speakers we have on today's call are Brian Humphries, chief executive officer; and Jan Siegmund, chief financial officer. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that some of the comments made on today's call and some of the responses to your questions may contain forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to the risks and uncertainties as described in the company's earnings release and other filings with the SEC. Additionally, during our call today, we will reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe provide useful information for our investors. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, where appropriate to the corresponding GAAP measures, can be found in the company's earnings release and other filings with the SEC.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Brian Humphries. Please go ahead, Brian. Brian Humphries -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Tyler. Good afternoon, everybody. I would like to start today's call by addressing the humanitarian crisis in India. As many of you know, India is the heart of Cognizant, and home to more than 200,000 of our associates. I would like to express my support and solidarity for our Indian associates, wherever they are in the world, and my sympathy for any who have suffered a loss during the pandemic. In addition to the ongoing support of our associates, which includes home care and hospitalization assistance, vaccination cost reimbursement for our associates and their families, and making vaccine availability easier for those with disabilities, Cognizant is making a multimillion dollar investment to assist India through the crisis. This is focused on covering operational expenses at hospitals throughout India that are caring for COVID-19 patients; funding the efforts of UNICEF in India to deploy oxygen-generation plants, COVID diagnostic testing and medical supplies; and partnering with one of India's leading hospital chains to set up vaccination centers in locations across the country, including some of Cognizant's owned facilities. The impact of the pandemic on industry attrition rates, absenteeism and client delivery remains somewhat uncertain. We monitor our situation daily, and we'll continue to prioritize the health and safety of our associates, while serving our clients who have been particularly supportive in recent weeks. As the COVID situation differs throughout the world, our return-to-office strategy remains country-driven. Currently, almost all of our associates are working from home and business travel remains on an exception-only basis. Let's turn now to the first quarter. First-quarter revenue was $4.4 billion, representing growth of 2.4% year over year in constant currency. Although we executed well in the quarter and delivered against our expectations, revenue upside was limited by elevated attrition, reflecting the intensely competitive market for digital talent that we spoke about in our last earnings call. This put some pressure on salaries as rows were filled by lateral hires or contingent workforce. And in some cases, commercial opportunities were forgone due to an inability to source talent. To address retention challenges, we've been executing a multipart plan that includes stepping up our internal engagement efforts and increasing investments in our people through training and job rotations to provide opportunities for career growth, shifting to a quarterly promotion cycle for billable associates and implementing further salary increases and promotions for high-demand skills and critical positions and ramping our hiring capacity by adding hundreds of recruiters, and making 28,000-plus offers to new graduates in India, a new record. Daily resignations increased through the first quarter, peaking in March. On a positive note, resignations slowed in April and continued to slow in May. However, given two months' notice periods in India, we anticipate further sequential increases in attrition in Q2 and before a gradual recovery in the second half. Notwithstanding industry attrition challenges, we remain confident in Cognizant's standing as a magnet for skilled talent and a great place to build a career. In recent quarters, we've seen a meaningful increase in our brand perception in the talent market in India. For example, our compass acceptance rates among India's top engineering colleges has risen to more than 80% this year, up almost 10 percentage points since 2019. In addition, LinkedIn just ranked Cognizant a top company in both the U.S. and India based on traits like the ability to advance, skills growth and gender diversity, all of which are consistent with enabling professionals to grow their careers. In India, LinkedIn ranks us No. two among 25 leading companies. This honor follows Forbes Magazine recently naming Cognizant to its list for World's Best Employers and Best Employers for Diversity. Moving on, I'm pleased with the health of key leading performance indicators. For example, digital revenue growth accelerated to 15% year over year. Digital now represents 44% of our revenue mix. Bookings growth of 5%, which was strong considering outstanding December bookings and a tough prior-year compare. Year-to-date bookings growth has since been boosted by excellent bookings in April. I'm confident that our sustained book-to-bill ratio of greater than 1.1 times revenue provides us with the opportunity to further accelerate revenue growth. Finally, our qualified pipeline and win rates are strong and give us reason to be bullish. Turning now to our industry sectors. financial services declines moderated. Leading performance indicators, including digital mix and qualified pipeline have both improved in both insurance and banking. Our turnaround efforts are ongoing, and we expect financial services to continue to recover over the course of the year. I'm pleased with the growing momentum in our Healthcare business. We had a strong quarter with growth across our payer and life sciences businesses and improving trends within our provider business. Over the past 18 months, we've refreshed our product strategy and better aligned our investments with market priorities. We recalibrated our product road maps to focus our core platforms and cloud enablement, customer experiences, digital workflows and automation. This intensified pivot to digital has resonated well with both existing clients and prospects, enabling us to achieve double-digit growth in our software product business. Products and Resources continues to be affected by the pandemic. Declines in retail and consumer goods and in travel and hospitality were offset by continued double-digit growth in manufacturing, logistics, energy and utilities. communications, media and technology posted solid growth when normalized for the exit of elements of content moderation. Jan will provide more details on the quarter in his prepared remarks. Let's turn now to the macro environment. Our client conversations suggest a robust and resilient IT services demand picture for 2021 and beyond. This is fueled by business model innovation, customer experience investments, technology modernization, risk mitigation and efficiency initiatives, all driven by hyperscale road map and commercial investments. Creating better experiences is at the center of the digital economy. That's what clients are most interested in, how to orchestrate technology, data and design to make their employee and customer experiences more productive, intuitive, relevant and valuable. A good example is the work we've been doing with Papa John's International, one of the largest pizza delivery chains in the United States. We helped Papa John's transform its order operations into a centralized model that enables hyper-personalized offers for customers. We did so through an end-to-end intelligent cloud-based omni-channel solution powered by advanced analytics in 750 of its stores initially before being expanded to 1,500 stores given early success. This solution resulted in a revenue uplift of more than 15% per order, significant productivity improvements and halving the time between order placement and delivery. It's also improved the experience of Papa John's employees by lowering their stress from multitasking while freeing up staff to focus on serving guests. The shift from traditional to a software-centric business requires clients to transform their business processes and their IT architectures in parallel. This starts with engineering a new digital stack, enabled by software and consumer-grade apps that sit on intelligence, drawn from sophisticated data sets, all of which need to be instrumented and run on cloud platforms. Within this new stack, we see particularly strong opportunities to help clients in modernizing their applications, data and infrastructure. And as you can imagine, this is driving increasing demand for our digital engineering and cloud solutions portfolio. Our overriding aim is to help clients become modern businesses. That way, they can innovate faster, become more agile and above all, stay relevant to their customers. In that vein, we're collaborating with Inchcape, a U.K.-based automotive, distribution and retail leader to digitally transform and simplify their global finance and accounting infrastructure and services. We're applying machine learning, data analytics, RPA and advanced business process services to drive efficiencies and enable Inchcape to make faster and smarter business decisions. Moving now on to strategy. We remain focused on executing the strategy with four related priorities: building a stronger global brand, further globalizing Cognizant, accelerating digital and increasing our client relevance. I've covered these priorities in prior calls, so I'll just offer a few broad observations about our execution. We strengthened our portfolio and sharpened its focus on faster-growing markets and geographic segments. All of our offerings are aligned to the market and name that providing the capabilities clients want most, like accelerating cloud migration, enabling omnichannel commerce, unlocking value from data using AI and ML, creating modern mobility experiences and more. As cloud computing has changed the way IT is delivered across infrastructure applications and platforms, we've continued to strengthen our relationships with the world's leading hyperscale and SaaS companies. With our dedicated business groups from Microsoft, AWS and Google Cloud platform, we can help clients run their core applications and create more agile workflows in the cloud. We're also maintaining our M&A pace to further expand our capabilities in our key digital focus areas of software engineering, data and AI, cloud and IoT. In Q1, we acquired Servian, an Australian enterprise transformation consultancy, specializing in data analytics, AI, digital services, experience design and cloud. We also acquired Linium, a cloud transformation consultancy group specializing in the ServiceNow platform and solutions; and Magenic Technologies, a custom software development services company that expands our global software product engineering network. During the quarter, we signed an agreement to acquire ESG Mobility, a digital automotive engineering, R&D provider for connected autonomous and electric vehicles. ESG mobility complements our existing connected mobility offerings and our automotive industry presence. Before closing, I want to spend a moment on ESG, environmental, social and governance. The public health, economic and societal damage wrought by COVID-19 have caused most businesses to reflect deeply on what they owe their stakeholders. In keeping with our purpose, we tried to be a modern corporation that is responsive to the many larger contexts in which we operate, among them, societal, environmental, economic and technological. And that's why the principle of sustainability is so important to us. It speaks to our interdependence with local communities and global ecosystems. During Q1, we announced a five-year $250 million global philanthropic investment to advance economic mobility, educational opportunity, diversity and inclusion and health and well-being in communities as they emerge from the pandemic. We also recognize how much we must evolve to become a sustainable business. To do so, we will embed ESG into our thinking, decisions and actions. This is a multiyear endeavor, and one of increasing importance to our clients, associates and indeed you, our investors. To mark our progress along this journey, we're planning a series of announcements that will include the publication of Cognizant's 2020 ESG report later in the second quarter. In closing, we continue to successfully execute our strategy. We are bullish in the industry and our prospects within it. We're working diligently through a multiyear plan to reposition Cognizant to achieve its full growth potential and reestablish our company as an industry leader. As we do so, we are committed to make the necessary investments that will set us up for sustained momentum. With that, I'll turn the call over to Jan, who will cover the details of the quarter and our financial outlook before we take your questions. Jan, over to you.Jan Siegmund -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Brian and good afternoon, everyone. Our Q1 revenue was $4.4 billion, representing growth of 4.2% year over year or 2.4% in constant currency. Compared with the prior-year period, this includes approximately 300 basis points of growth from our acquisitions and a 90 basis points of negative impact from the exit of certain content services. Digital revenue in Q1 grew approximately 15% and represented 44% of total revenue versus 39% in the prior-year period. We were pleased with this growth acceleration compared to Q4, particularly in light of a competitive hiring environment for digital talent. Now, moving on to segment results where all growth rates provided will be year over year in constant currency. financial services declined 1.7%, reflecting more moderate declines in both banking and insurance, in line with our expectations. We are seeing early signs that the investments and repositioning of both businesses are resonating with our clients. This includes financial services bookings growth outpacing total company bookings growth in Q1 and a solid pipeline growth. We continue to expect a pace recovery for this segment over the next several quarters and anticipate that we will see positive momentum throughout the year. Healthcare growth was 7% and accelerated from last quarter, driven by strong performance in both our healthcare payer and life sciences businesses. Following strong performance in last quarter, in Q1, our Healthcare business had its best year over year growth quarter since 2018, benefiting from increased demand for our integrated payer software solutions and improving fundamentals in our provider business. Life sciences revenue continued to benefit from strong demand for our digital services among both pharmaceutical and medical device companies. Products and resources increased 2.4%, driven by the fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth in manufacturing, logistics, energy and utilities. This growth was partially offset by mid-single-digit declines in retail consumer goods and double-digit declines in travel and hospitality. We have seen some early signs of stabilization within these sectors most impacted by the pandemic, but it remains a fluid demand environment. Communications, media and technology grew 3.1%, including a benefit from recent acquisitions, but was partially offset by a negative 600-basis-point impact from our exit of certain portions of our content services business. Outside of this impact, we are very pleased with the growth of our core portfolio of the technology business and expect continued solid growth for the remainder of the year. Segment growth was also partially offset by the demand softness attributable to the pandemic. Now, moving on to margins. In Q1, our GAAP and adjusted operating margin were both 15.2% as there were no adjustments for unusual items to report. On a year over year basis, adjusted operating margin improved approximately 10 basis points, reflecting lower travel and entertainment expenses, savings from our cost initiatives in 2020 and lower immigration costs. These benefits were mostly offset by investments impacting our SG&A, including the margin-dilutive impact from our recent acquisitions, investments to accelerate organic growth and corporate investments, including enhancements to our cybersecurity environment. Our GAAP tax rate in the quarter was 24.1%. And our adjusted tax rate was 23.7%, aided by a discrete benefit of a tax settlement in the quarter. Diluted GAAP EPS was $0.95 and adjusted diluted EPS was $0.97. Now, turning to the balance sheet. We ended the quarter with cash and short-term investments of $2.2 billion or $1.5 billion net of debt. Free cash flow in the first quarter, our seasonally softest quarter, was $93 million and included an approximately $50 million negative impact from unique items in the quarter, including the payment of a portion of our 2020 COVID tax deferrals. Q1 also includes the payment of our annual cash incentive which was higher this year compared to the 2020 payment. DSO of 70 days was flat sequentially compared to the 74 days in the prior-year period. As a reminder, in 2021, we expect free cash flow will be lower compared to 2020 as a result of several benefits from 2020 negatively impacting '21, including government offered deferrals of certain tax payments, which impacted Q1 and will also impact cash flow later this year and the higher cash incentive payout this quarter versus Q1 2020 I just mentioned. Our outlook for 2021 is unchanged and assumes free cash flow conversion will be around 100% of net income as we focus on building upon the DSO improvements achieved last year. During the quarter, we continued to execute our balanced capital deployment strategy, repurchasing 3.1 million shares for $234 million at a weighted average price of approximately $76 per share. At the end of March, we had approximately $2.6 billion remaining under our share repurchase authorization. We also spent cash of approximately $300 million on acquisitions and $128 million for a regular quarterly dividend. Turning to guidance. For Q2, we expect revenue in the range of $4.42 billion to $4.46 billion, representing 10.5% to 11.5% growth or 8% to 9% in constant currency based on our expectation that currency will have a favorable approximately 250 basis points impact and inorganic contribution of approximately 400 basis points. This outlook assumes some stabilization in financial services and continued pressures across retail and consumer goods, travel and hospitality and communication and media. Keep in mind that Q2 2020 included a combined impact of COVID and the ransomware attack, which is leading to easier year over year compares for all segments in Q2 2021 and growth levels above our full-year outlook. For the full year, we now expect revenue of $17.8 billion to $18.1 billion, representing 7% to 9% growth or 5.5 to seven and a half percent in constant currency versus our prior guidance of five and a half to eight and a half percent growth or 4% to 7% in constant currency, reflecting the improving macro environment and strong demand for our offerings. Our outlook assumes an unchanged expectation that currency will have a favorable approximately 150-basis-points impact and includes approximately 300 basis points of contribution from inorganic revenue. Moving on to margins. We expect full-year adjusted operating margin in the range of 15.2% to 15.7% versus 15.2% to 16.3% previously, primarily reflecting increased investment in our people and recruiting for digital skills. This includes rapidly accelerating our recruiting capacity, implementing quarterly role-based promotions and leveraging our contractor ecosystem. We're also using it as an opportunity to enhance our employee value proposition and keep Cognizant as a top destination for talent globally. This leads to our full-year adjusted EPS guidance, which is unchanged at $3.90 to $4.02. Our full-year outlook assumes interest income of $20 million to $30 million, which is unchanged from our prior guidance and reflects the $2.1 billion cash repatriation in Q4 2020. Our outlook assumes average shares outstanding of approximately 530 million and a tax rate of 25% to 26%, both unchanged from our prior outlook. Our guidance does not account for any potential impact from events like changes to the immigration and tax policies. With that, we will open the call for questions. 