  OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Parker Hannifin Corporation's fiscal year 2022 third quarter earnings webcast and conference call. [Operator instructions] And now it is my pleasure to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Todd Leombruno, chief financial officer. Thank you. Please go ahead.Todd Leombruno -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Paul. Good morning and thanks to everyone for joining. This is our fiscal year 2022 Q3 earnings release webcast. As Paul said, this is Todd Leombruno. I am the chief financial officer. And as usual, with me today are Tom Williams, our chairman and chief executive officer; and Lee Banks, our vice chairman and president. Today, we are going to discuss forward-looking projections and also, we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures. Slide 2 in our deck details our disclosure statement on these areas.Actual results may differ from our projections due to uncertainties listed in these forward-looking statements, and those are detailed in all of our SEC filings. Reconciliations for all the non-GAAP measures, along with this presentation, have been made available under the Investors section on parker.com, and those will remain available for one year. I'd like to remind everyone before we begin that we are still bound by the requirements of the U.K. Takeover Code in respect to discussing certain details of the pending Meggitt transaction. As for the call today, as usual, we'll start with Tom discussing some key items for the quarter. I'll follow up with some additional color on our Q3 results and detail the increase to our guide that we issued this morning with all of our press releases. We'll finish the call with any questions you have for Tom, Lee, or myself. And with that, we are now on Slide 3. And Tom, I'll hand it over to you. Tom Williams -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Todd. Welcome, everybody, to the call today. Appreciate your participation. It was a record quarter, record quarter for the quarter and record quarter for all time in a lot of key metrics and was delivered against very difficult circumstances that required exceptional agility and performance by our global team. I know we all lived through it, but just as a refresher of what happened in Q3, we had the omicron spikes, which drove absenteeism; we had supply chain challenges; inflation; China COVID shutdowns; and the Ukraine war. So just your basic average quarter. Obviously, I'm being sarcastic, but obviously, not ideal conditions. And what was remarkable against that backdrop, we turned in a number of all-time records, as I mentioned. And my thanks to the entire team for this great performance and resilience in these times. So a couple of comments about the quarter on Slide 3. Safety is our top priority. We continue to be top quartile when you look at our performance on safety incidents versus our peers. We're doing that through our high-performance teams, which is how we run the factories and the warehouses, and a culture of Kaizen. And as I've mentioned before to shareholders, there's a very strong linkage between safety, engagement, and business performance. If you look at those three metrics for us over the last seven years, they're all going in the same direction. Our sales growth was 9% versus the prior year. Organic was a positive 11%, so that was very nice. We eclipsed $4 billion in sales for the first time in the history of the company, first time over $4 billion in a quarter. That was a great milestone. We had strong demand against virtually all of our end markets. Segment operating margin was 20.3% as reported or 22.7% adjusted. That was 130 basis points better than prior year. So expanded margins, 130 basis points in the kind of conditions that I started the call with, just remarkable performance. We increased the quarterly dividend 29%. That is the largest increase in our history and clearly signals the confidence that we have about Parker for the future. We have some temporary things, which we highlighted in the future slides here, that Todd will go over about the Q4 impact related to China COVID shutdowns. The comment here I just want to make is that that's a temporary thing. How long it goes, it's hard to predict, but we expect to come up to full production sometime in Q1, and that will make up this delta that we're experiencing to Q4 during the course of the rest of FY '23. And maybe to clarify, if you're looking at our -- what we're talking about China versus what some of our peers are, we only have 60 days left in our fiscal year. So it's very hard for us to make that up in rest of the fiscal year, but we clearly feel confident that we'll make it up in FY '23. If you look at these results, it's the Win Strategy, as the portfolio changes, it's the fact that the company is now much longer cycle and a better performing company. On Slide 4, what drives us is really three things: living up to our purpose, which is enabling engineering breakthroughs that lead to a better tomorrow; being great generators and deployers of cash, and being a top-quartile performer. And I want to give you one example on Slide 5, probably our purpose in action related to clean technologies. As the world migrates to a more carbon-friendly environment and applications, we're going to be there to help. One very topical and current area given the inflation pressures in the Russia-Ukraine war is the topic of energy and the availability of energy and inflation of energy prices around the world. And as the world moves from brown sources of energy to greener sources of energy, it's pretty clear that we're going to need to use all shades of color between brown to green as we walk to that cleaner tomorrow. And clearly, a big part of that bridge to that cleaner tomorrow is going to be natural gas. And we wanted to talk about really natural gas, where we play in it, and just how we're going to be able to help society, our purpose, and action here. So upstream -- there's four main components here: upstream, midstream, liquefaction, storage and regasification and power generation. On the bottom of this slide, you see the six Parker technologies that we utilize to go into there and a couple of anecdotal comments for each one. So in upstream, we've got fluid power controls for the rig equipment. We have instrumentation. Valves and controls in there as well. And midstream is primarily gas filtration. On the liquefaction, storage, and regasification, that will be our pumps, our valves, ceiling technologies, glucan vance. And this is all under cryogenic conditions, so ultra-low temperatures. And then power gen, I'm going to cover on the next slide. So a lot of what we do for society on compressed natural gas and liquid natural gas is going to be directly applicable as the world moves to hydrogen, which is on Slide 6. So that last value chain as part of natural gas that incurred was the power generation piece. And clearly, what's obvious here and what's really helpful for us, and I think our customers, is all the technologies that we have on CNG and LNG are directly applicable into hydrogen. You can see in the middle of the page, the applications, those five bullets we have in the middle. On the right-hand side are our various technologies and similar technologies for both fuel sources. With the exception of our sealing technology, will need to be even more sophisticated and which we're working on as we speak to be able to seal hydrogen, which is a smaller molecule and more difficult to seal. But we'll be a big part of this bridge with natural gas, and we'll be there to help when society's ready for hydrogen as well. If you go to Slide 7, which happens to be one of my favorite slides. And while you may be tired of me showing this slide, I think it's the simplest way for shareholders and people that maybe aren't familiar with us to understand how different the company is over the last seven years. It's been our people, which is really their engagement, their ownership, those top-quartile results that we see from our people driving top-quartile performance. So in the portfolio, and I would just summarize it, we're going to -- when we close Meggitt, we will deploy $20 billion of money into acquisitions, reshaping the portfolio. We will have doubled engineered materials, doubled aerospace and doubled our filtration businesses over this period of time, dramatically reshaping the company and the future of the company. And then on the strategy side, you have the Win Strategy 2.0 and 3.0 now over this period of time. And you've seen what it's done to margins. EPS are just phenomenal. This is high into the right type of metrics on this page, which is hard to do. I can assure you that. So hopefully, you see from this progress, in addition to the alignment we have with the positive secular trends in aerospace, digital electrification, and clean tech, that our business is poised for a very promising future over the next five years. I wanted to close my opening comments with giving you an update on Slide 8 with where we stand with the regulatory clearances regarding to the Meggitt transaction. So on the antitrust side, we have already cleared without any conditions from the following countries: so Australia, China, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, and Turkey. Brazil has given us unconditional approval subject to their usual 15-day waiting period, so that's in good shape. We've received conditional antitrust clearance from the European Commission, subject to our commitment to divest of our aircraft mill and brake business, which is in process. And then on the foreign investment side of things, the transaction has been cleared by Australia, Denmark, Germany, and Italy. So probably the simplest way for me to describe it, what remains and what's left are antitrust clearances for the U.S. and the U.K. and the national security clearances for the U.K. and France. So we're making good progress, and we continue to expect the transaction will close sometime during Q3 of this calendar year. And we're very excited. We're going to put two great companies together. We're going to double the size of aerospace, and we're going to have great synergies as we work together. And we're going to do all this at the beginning of an aerospace recovery, so the timing is perfect. With that, I'll turn it over to Todd to give you more details on the quarter.Todd Leombruno -- Chief Financial Officer OK. Thanks, Tom. I'm going to start on Slide 10. This is just a year-over-year comparison of our Q3 financial results. And Tom mentioned this, really all the credit goes to our team members, really demonstrating stellar execution to generate a number of record results in a quarter that, as Tom mentioned, had a lot of disruptions. Sales increased 9%. We did eclipse $4 billion for the first time in our history. Organic growth was 11%. Currency was a drag at two points. So that's how we get to the 9% growth. I just want to make a comment. Our backlog levels are unbelievably strong. They're up 25% from this time last year, and over 90% of our end markets are in growing state. We continue to see all regions perform extremely well. Commercial aerospace and really all of the North American markets are really the most robust, but it is broad-based across the company. Tom mentioned this, but we did expand segment operating margins, 130 basis points in the quarter. We finished at 22.7% on an adjusted basis. And I'll go through the segments in a couple of slides, but really, every segment, every region contributed to this performance. The inflationary and supply chain issues, they are persistent. They remain. Yet our team members are really showing their resiliency as we leverage the win strategy to really achieve our goal, which is top-quartile performance. When you look at EBITDA, our EBITDA margins expanded 70 basis points. We finished at 22.6 for the quarter. And net income -- adjusted net income grew by 16% in the quarter, and we finished at $630 million or 15.4% return on sales. Net income grew 16% versus prior year. Very, very impressive. I think we've mentioned this multiple times before, but Tom was talking about Meggitt. The currency deal contingent hedge we have, pound to dollar, requires mark-to-market accounting treatment. Due to what's going on with currency rates and really the strengthening of the dollar versus the pound, we did record a pre-tax noncash charge in the quarter of $247 million, and that really accounts for the major difference between the as-reported and the adjusted numbers this quarter. When you look at EPS, we did $4.83. That is $0.71 greater than prior year. That's up 17% from the $4.12 we did last year. So just really solid performance across the board. And again, I can't thank our team enough. If you go to Slide 11, what we did here is we just put a graph together that displays really the elements of that $0.71 or 17% increase in EPS. And again, once again, this quarter, we continue to outperform. It's really driven by volume. Of course, the margin expansion that Tom and I talked about. But really, what I like about this is it really displays our solid operating performance. The majority of the change, all of it is showing up in segment operating income. $0.75 of the $0.71 increase is all segment operating income. If you look at everything else, that's the $0.04 of a drag, but really proud that we were able to not only improve EPS but do it at the operating line. If we jump into Slide 12, this is our segment performance. Growth continues to be broad-based across every segment and every region. Demand is -- continues to be robust. Our orders are up 14%. The team has taken prudent actions to manage the inflationary environment. And that really has positioned us to continue to maintain margin-neutral on all of these price cost issues that are fairly well documented across the world. That and the operating execution that I talked about really allowed us to improve margins in every segment. If you look at our incrementals, 37%, we've talked about this a couple of times, but we still are going up against pandemic-level comps. We had $25 million of discretionary savings in Q3. If you account for that, incrementals would have been 44% for the quarter. So just really solid incremental performance. It really highlights the power of the Win Strategy, and it demonstrates the transformation that we spoke about at our Investor Day just at March 8th. If you jump into the segments, North America surpassed sales of $2 billion, organic growth was almost 15% versus prior year, and adjusted operating margins expanded by 100 basis points and reached 22.9% for the quarter. That led the company this quarter, right, which is really impressive. North America has certainly had challenges across the supply chain. It's great to see them rebound and lead the company again. Their incrementals improved in the quarter, and they're the best incrementals they generated all fiscal year. And even more importantly, order rates accelerated to 23% and backlog, of course, grew even stronger. Just very great execution, broad-based demand in the North American segment. If we move to international, sales were about $1.4 billion. Organic growth there is almost 9% from prior year. EMEA and Latin America combined was mid-teens positive, and Asia Pacific was low single digit, but all regions are positive in the international segment. Again, here, operating margins expanded 110 basis points in international and finished really at a high level of 22.7%. Really satisfied to see the consistent performance our international teams continue to post. And we've talked about this. It's been a long-term effort for a long time. And I'm really happy that we're seeing the results out of our international segment. Order rates in international are plus 9%. If we look at aerospace, aerospace continues to rebound. Sales were $632 million. Organic growth was almost 6%. Very strong demand in our commercial markets, both OEM and MRO. And operating margins, great expansion here, 250 basis points of improvement, came in at 21.9%. And I just want to remind everyone, with this great margin performance, we are still operating at below pre-COVID at baseline, when it comes to sales. Orders in aerospace are minus 4%. But if you remember, we talked about this last quarter. There were a few large military orders in the prior period that really just kind of make a tough comp in aerospace. If you exclude those items, aerospace orders were positive 20. And again, aerospace dollars in the quarter are the largest dollar level that we've had in the last four quarters. So it just really gives us confidence in the aerospace recovery. Really proud to be able to share these results across all of our segments. And like Tom says, it really demonstrates the power of the performance and portfolio change that a lot of -- all of our team members have been working on for some time. So if we go to Slide 13, cash flow generation, right? Tom talked about being great generators and great deployers of cash. Year to date, we've exceeded $1.5 billion in cash flow from operations. That's 13.3% of sales. Our free cash flow is about $1.4 billion. That's almost 12% of sales. And our year-to-date conversion is 117%. We continue to still manage this diligently in a growth environment, right, which is not the easiest thing to do. If you look at year to date, working capital is a use of cash of about 3%. Versus last year, it was a source of cash of about 1.2%. Q4 is our strongest quarter for cash. If you followed us for a long time, you know that. We still continue to forecast mid-teens CFOA. And obviously, greater than 100% conversion when it comes to cash flow conversion. Tom called out the 29% dividend increase that we announced. This really reflects the confidence we have and our ability to generate cash, not just in the short term but in the long term as we look out to achieving those FY '27 goals. Just a few notes on leverage. Our gross debt to EBITDA was 2.8 times. Our net debt was 2.6 times. But if you remember, we have about $2.5 billion of cash in escrow to pay for the Meggitt transaction. We are classifying that as restricted cash. If you exclude that $2.5 billion, our net debt to EBITDA would be 1.8 times. Now let's look at the guidance. If I go to Slide 14, on the guidance, we obviously announced an increase to our guidance this morning. I'm going to give it to you on an as-reported and adjusted basis. We're raising full year EPS by $0.10. Last quarter, we were projecting $18.05 per share. We are now at $18.15 per share at the midpoint. We've also narrowed the range to $0.15 on either side. Sales growth for the full year is forecasted to be about 10%. We did increase the organic guide 50 basis points from 10.5% to 11%, so 11% full year organic growth. And while currency remains a headwind in the quarter, for the full year, we think it will be about a 1% drag to the top line. Just a reminder on currency, for our guide, we are using March 31st rates to calculate our estimate. If you look at the segment operating margins, full year guidance is 22.1%. I just want to call out, if you look at that versus last year's actuals, that's a 100-basis-point increase in segment operating margins. So I'm glad to be able to speak to that. The corporate G&A interest and other is really expected to be $947 million on an as-reported basis and $459 million on an adjusted basis. And the adjusted -- we've kind of -- the adjustments, we've detailed out for everybody. The acquired intangible asset amortization is $315 million. Business, realignment charges are $20 million. LORD cost to achieve is $5 million. And of course, we closed our Russian operations. That is a charge of $20 million. If you're curious, that was $13 million in the segment line and $7 million below the segment operating income line. Meggitt acquisition-related expenses that we've incurred to date is $84 million. And finally, that deal contingent hedge that I mentioned, on a full year basis, it's $396 million. We will continue to adjust transaction-related expenses as they are incurred, all the way up until we get to close. And a note on tax. Our full year tax rate is down a little bit. We expect that to be about 21.5% for the full year. And when you do all the math, for us, that equates to an EPS -- adjusted EPS guide for Q4 of $4.60. This quarter, we actually put another slide in here. It's a bridge on our guidance reconciliation. The Q3 performance that we had, we really outperformed our guide significantly. We beat our guide by $0.29. We've rolled that into our full year guide here. And based on really strong backlog and order rates, in North America specifically, we have increased our Q4 North American organic growth guide by 300 basis points versus what we thought last quarter. And that really is generating about $0.08 of segment operating income in Q4. Tom has mentioned this, but the COVID-related shutdowns in China are a near-term temporary headwind for us in Q4. Obviously, Q4 is the end of our fiscal year here. We are estimating that to impact Q4 sales by $100 million. We're using a 40% decremental on this $100 million, which is greater than what we normally operate at, simply because a number of our facilities are fully shut down. So we are confident that the facilities that are operating in China and those others in the international segment are going to be able to perform, but we're using a 40% decremental on just that $100 million of near-term headwind. That equates to a $0.24 EPS headwind going into Q4. All the other items net to a slight EPS reduction of $0.03, and that really is the walk on how we get to our new guide of $18.15. So before I turn it back over to Tom, I just want to make sure everyone saw the press release that we issued on Tuesday, with Robin announcing her retirement plans after what will be almost two decades with Parker Hannifin. And Robin has really been a driving force within the company, really helping us to transform our M&A processes, our long-range planning, and, of course, serving as our voice and our biggest fan with the investment community. She has put forth timeless effort to champion of Pure W, which is our first business resource group that is focusing on developing women leaders, and that will leave a lasting imprint on Parker. So Robin, all of us here, we couldn't be happier for you, for your husband, Scott, as you transition into the best phase, the next phase of your life, and we thank you very much.Tom Williams -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer So I'm going to just pile on while we have Robin blushing and embarrass her even more. She's just done a great job. I've had a chance to work with her for 20 years. If I think about her deal-making skills and what she did when she led M&A, her ability to finance all these transactions, which isn't the easiest thing. And like Todd said, the Investor Relations and you've all experienced it, her ability to be the top spokesperson for the company, just an outstanding leader. We're going to miss her. But thankfully, she's given us lots of lead time here, and she's not leaving until the end of the year. And we'll get every ounce out of her that we possibly can on these next several months. She's nodding her head in agreement. So the last slide, Slide 16. We have a highly engaged team. They're the people behind these results. Their ownership, their engagement that drove the -- is driving our success. You saw the EPS and the margin expansion, just phenomenal, speaks to the Win Strategy, speaks to the portfolio changes. We are a longer-cycle, more resilient company. And we've got great alignment to the secular trends that I referred to earlier. And we're going to help the world as it moves to the clean technologies to be more sustainable. We gave you a new guide -- new feedback where we're headed for FY '27 with continued improvement across the board and really a transformed company with a bright promising future. Again, my thanks to everybody, the global team, just a fantastic quarter, fantastic year to date. And I'm going to turn it back to Paul to start the Q&A. 