
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Globe Life Inc. First Quarter 2021 Earnings Release Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mike Majors, Executive Vice President, Administration and Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.Michael C. Majors -- Executive Vice President, Administration and Investor Relations

 



Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Joining the call today are Gary Coleman and Larry Hutchison, our Co-Chief Executive Officers; Frank Svoboda, our Chief Financial Officer; and Brian Mitchell, our General Counsel.Some of our comments or answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements that are provided for general guidance purposes only. Accordingly, please refer to our earnings release, 2020 10-K and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the SEC. Some of our comments may also contain non-GAAP measures. Please see our earnings release and website for discussion of these terms and reconciliations to GAAP measures.I will now turn the call over to Gary Coleman.Gary L. Coleman -- Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Mike and good morning, everyone. In the first quarter, net income for the $179 million or $1.72 per share compared to $166 million or $1.52 per share a year ago. Net operating income for the quarter was $160 million or $1.53 per share, a decrease of 12% per share from a year ago. On a GAAP reported basis, return on equity as of March 31 was 8.6% and book value per share was $75.10. Excluding unrealized gains of fixed maturities, return on equity was 11.4% and book value per share was up 9% to $54.36.In the life insurance operations, premium revenue increased 9% to $708 million. As we've noted before, we have seen improved persistency and premium collections since the onset of the pandemic. Life underwriting margin was $137 million, down 24% from a year ago. The decline in margin is due primarily to $38 million of COVID-related claims. For the year, we expect life premium revenue to grow around 7% and underwriting margin to grow 4% to 6%. And at the midpoint of our 2021 guidance, we assume approximately $50 million of COVID claims.In health insurance, premium revenue grew 5% to $294 million and health underwriting margin was up 14% to $72 million. The increase in underwriting margin is primarily due to improved persistency and lower acquisition expense. For the year, we expect health premium revenue to grow 5% to 6% and underwriting margin to grow 7% to 8%. Before continuing, I'm pleased to note that this is the fourth quarter in company's history that our total premium revenue exceeded $1 billion. We appreciate the efforts of our agents and our employees in achieving this milestone.Continuing the first quarter results, administrative expenses were $66 million for the quarter, up 4% from the year ago. As a percentage of premium, administrative expenses were 6.6% compared to 6.8% a year ago. For the full year, we expect administrative expenses to grow 7% to 8%, and being around 6.7% of premium, due primarily to higher acquisition costs, IT and information security costs as well as a gradual increase in travel and facilities costs.

 



I will now turn the call over to Larry for his comments on the first quarter marketing operations.Larry M. Hutchison -- Co-Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Gary. We experienced strong growth in supply sales during the first quarter and we continue to make progress in the areas that drive recruiting and sales activity. I'll now discuss current trends at each distribution channel. At American Income Life, life premiums were up 11% to $335 million, while life underwriting margin was down 2% at $98 million. The lower underwriting margin is primarily due to COVID claims.Net life sales were $70 million, up 11%. The increase in net life sales is primarily due to increased agent count. The average producing agent count for the first quarter was 9,918, up 30% from the year ago quarter, and up 3% from the fourth quarter. The producing agent count at the end of the first quarter was 10,329. The American Income agency has adapted exceptionally well to the virtual environment and continues to generate positive momentum.At Liberty National, life premiums were up 4% to $76 million, while life underwriting margin was down 48% to $10 million of our own underwriting margin is primarily due to COVID claims. Net life sales grew 30% to $16 million while net health sales were $6 million, down 2% from the year ago quarter. The increase in net life sales is due to an increased agent count and improved agent productivity. The average producing agent count for the first quarter was 2,734, up 3% from the year ago quarter and up 1% from the fourth quarter. The producing agent count of Liberty National ended the quarter at 2,727. We are encouraged by Liberty National's continued growth.At Family Heritage, health premiums increased 8% to $83 million and health underwriting margin grew 12% to $22 million. The increase in underwriting margin is primarily due to improved persistency and lower acquisition expense. Net health sales declined 4% to $16 million due primarily to a decline in agent productivity during the first quarter. The average producing agent count for the first quarter was 1,285, up 5% from the year ago quarter, while down 12% from the fourth quarter.Agent count at the end of the quarter was 1,235. The drop in average agent count from the fourth quarter is not unusual as Family Heritage typically sees a decline in recruiting activity in the first quarter of the year. We have seen an increase in recruiting activity and productivity over the last several weeks expect this will continue going forward.In our Direct to Consumer division at Globe Life, life premiums were up 11% to $244 million, while life underwriting margin declined 78% to $9 million. Frank will further discuss the decline in underwriting margin in his comments. Net life sales were $40 million, up 22% from the year ago quarter. We continued to see strong consumer demand for basic life insurance protection across all channels of the Direct to Consumer distribution in the first quarter.At United American General Agency, health premiums increased 6% to $117 million and health underwriting margin increased 19% to $19 million. The increase in underwriting margin is primarily due to improved persistency and lower acquisition expenses. Net health sales were $13 million, down 11% compared to the year ago quarter. It's always difficult to predict United American sales as the Medicare supplement marketplace is highly competitive. It's still difficult to predict future activity in this uncertain environment.I will now provide projections based on trends we are seeing and knowledge of our business. We expect the producing agent count for each agency at the end of 2021 to be in the following ranges. American Income 7% to 17% growth; Liberty National, 1% to 16% growth; Family Heritage, 1% to 9% growth. Net life sales for the full year 2021 are expected to be as follows. American Income Life, an increase of 11% to 15%; Liberty National, an increase of 16% to 20%; Direct to Consumer, a decrease of 5% to an increase of 5%. Net health sales for the full year 2021 are expected to be as follows. Liberty National, an increase of 16% to 20%; Family Heritage, an increase of 4% to 8%; United American Individual Medicare Supplement, a decrease of 3% to an increase of 7%.I will now turn the call back to Gary.Gary L. Coleman -- Co-Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Larry. Excess investment income, which we define as net investment income was required interest on net policy liabilities and debt was $61 million, a 3% decline over the year ago quarter. On a per share basis, reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program, excess investment income grew 2%. For the full year, we expect excess investment income to be flat, but up 2% to 3% on a per share basis.As per investment yield, in the first quarter, we invested $299 million in investment-grade fixed maturities, primarily in the industrial and financial sectors. We invested at an average yield of 3.41%, an average rating of A minus and an average life of 34 years. We also invested $61 million in limited partnerships that invested in credit instruments. While these investments are expected to produce incremental additional yield, they were in line with our conservative investment philosophy.For the entire fixed maturity portfolio, the first quarter yield was 5.24%, down 15 basis points from the first quarter in 2020. The portfolio yield as of March 31 was also 5.24%. Invested assets were $18.7 billion, including $17.4 billion of fixed maturities of amortized costs. Of the fixed maturities, $16.6 billion of investment grade with an average rating of A minus. And below investment grade bonds were -- are $802 million compared to $841 million a year in 2020.The percentage below investment grade bonds to fixed maturities is 4.6%. Excluding net unrealized gains and fixed maturity portfolio, below investment grade bonds as a percentage of equity is 14%. Overall, the total portfolio is rated A minus compared to BBB plus a year ago. Bonds rated triple B or 56% of the fixed maturity portfolio compared to 55% at the end of 2020. While this ratio is in line with the overall bond market, it is high relative to our peers.However, we have minimal or no exposure to higher risk assets such as derivatives, equities, residential mortgages, CLOs and other asset-backed securities. Because we invest long, a key criteria in utilizing our investment process is that an issuer must ability to survive multiple cycles. We believe that the BBB securities we acquire provides the best risk adjusted and capital adjusted returns due in large part to our ability to hold securities to maturity regardless of fluctuations in interest rates or equity markets.Lower interest rates continued to pressure investment income. For 2021, the average fixed maturity new money yield assumes that the midpoint of our guidance is 3.6% for the full year. While we would like to see higher interest rates going forward, Globe Life can thrive in a lower to longer interest rate environment. Extended low interest rates will not impact the GAAP or statutory balance sheets under the current accounting rules since we sell non-interest sensitive protection products.And fortunately, the impact of lower new money rates on our investment income is somewhat limited as we expect to have an average turnover of less than 2% per year in our investment portfolio over the next five years.Now, I will turn the call over to Frank for his comments on capital and liquidity.Frank M. Svoboda -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Gary. First I want to spend a few minutes discussing our share repurchase program, available liquidity and capital position. The parent began the year with liquid assets of $290 million. In addition to these liquid assets, the parent company will generate excess cash flows in 2021. The parent company's excess cash flow, as we define it, results primarily from the dividend received by the parent from its subsidiaries, less the interest paid on debt and the dividends paid to Globe Life shareholders.We anticipate our excess cash flow in 2021 will be in the range of $360 million to $370 million, higher than previously indicated and reflective of our final 2020 distributable statutory earnings. Thus, including the assets on hand at the beginning of the year, we currently expect to have around $650 million to $660 million of assets available to the parent during the year.In the first quarter, the parent company repurchased 944,000 shares of Globe Life Inc common stock at a total cost of $90 million, at an average share price of $95.47. So far in April, we have spent $13 million to repurchase 132,000 shares at an average price of $99.18. Thus, for the full year through today, we had spent $103 million to purchase 1.1 million shares at an average price of $95.92. Excluding the $103 million spent on repurchases so far this year, we will have approximately $550 million to $560 million of assets available to the parent for the remainder of 2021.As I'll discuss in more detail in just a few moments, this amount is more than necessary to support the targeted capital levels within our insurance operations and maintain the share repurchase program. As noted on previous calls, we will use our cash as efficiently as possible. We still believe share repurchases provide the best return to our shareholders over other available alternatives.Thus we anticipate share repurchases will continue to be the primary use of the parent's $360 million to $370 million of excess cash flows during the year. It should be noted that the cash received by the parent company from our insurance operations is after they have made substantial investments during the year to issue new insurance policies, expand our information technology, and other operational capabilities as well as acquire new long duration assets to fund our future cash needs.Our goal is to maintain our capital at levels necessary to support our current ratings. As noted on previous calls, Globe Life has a targeted consolidated company action level RBC ratio in the range of 300% to 320%. At December 31, 2020, our consolidated RBC ratio was 309%. At this RBC ratio, our insurance subsidiaries have approximately $50 million of capital over the amount required at the low end of our consolidated RBC target of 300%. This excess capital, along with the $550 million to $560 million of liquid assets that we expect to be available to parent, provides sufficient capital to fund future capital needs.As we discussed on previous calls, a primary driver of potential additional capital needs from the parent in 2021 relates to investment downgrades that increase required capital. Estimate the potential impact on capital due to changes in our investment portfolio, we continue to model several scenarios and stress tests. In our base case, we expect approximately $500 million of additional NAIC one notch downgrades over the course of the year. We do not anticipate any significant credit losses, although some credit losses would normally be expected from time to time.With this amount of downgrades, our insurance companies could require up to $70 million of capital to maintain the low end of our targeted RBC ratio of 300%. In addition to the potential capital needed for further investment portfolio downgrades, changes in the NAIC RBC factors relating to investments, commonly referred to as C1 factors, could create the need for additional capital for 2021.At this time, we do not know what the final factors will be. However, we believe the worst case scenario is that additional capital related to the new factors would not exceed $125 million to $150 million. It is important to note that Globe Life statutory reserves are not negatively impacted by the low interest rates or the equity markets given our basic fixed protection products. In the aggregate, our statutory reserves are more than adequate under all cash flow testing scenarios.Bottom line is that the parent company has ample liquidity to cover any additional capital that may be required and still have cash available to make our normal level of share repurchases. Once we get -- once we are able to get comfortable that our investment downgrades have returned to normal levels and we are able to determine the amount of additional capital required to support the new C1 factors, we will reevaluate our parent company retained assets.We will first determine the appropriate amount of liquid assets that should be retained at the parent. We'll then determine the best use of any excess amounts that remain. Depending on available alternatives, we would likely return such excess cash to our shareholders through additional share repurchases. At this time, we anticipate holding our higher level of liquid assets through the end of this year.At this time, I'd like to provide a few comments relating to the impact of COVID-19 on our first quarter results. As noted by Gary, total life underwriting margins declined in the quarter, primarily due to an estimated $38 million of COVID death claims incurred in the quarter. This amount was actually slightly less than we anticipated for the quarter.The total COVID death benefits include approximately $20 million in COVID death benefits incurred in our Direct to Consumer division or approximately 8% of its first quarter premium income; approximately $8 million of COVID death benefits incurred at Liberty National, over 10.5% of its premium for the quarter; and approximately $9 million at American Income, or 2.7% of its first quarter premium. It is important to note that the total COVID benefits paid through March 31, only 71 claims comprising slightly over $600,000 relate to policies sold since the beginning of March of 2020. This is a very small percent of the roughly 2 million policies sold in 2020.In addition to the COVID obligations incurred in the quarter, we also saw adverse developments in non-COVID claims related to both medical and non-medical causes of death, primarily those related to heart and other circulatory conditions, Alzheimer's and drug overdoses. This is a continuation of some adverse development that began to emerge last year. While not directly a COVID claim, we believe the elevated deaths are related to the pandemic due to the difficulties many individuals have had in receiving timely healthcare as well as the adverse effects of isolation and stress.Increases in non-COVID deaths since the start of the pandemic have also been noted by the CDC and the National Center for Health Statistics for the US population as a whole. While we experienced higher obligations from non-COVID causes in each of our distributions, the impact of these higher non-COVID deaths have been more evident in our Direct to Consumer channel, who is insured more closely represent the broader middle income US population than our other distributions.In addition to COVID deaths, the adverse experience related to non-COVID deaths also contributed to the lower underwriting margin in the quarter. We anticipate a lower margin as a percent of premium, given the significant number of US deaths expected in the quarter and since evidence of the higher non-COVID deaths have started to emerge last year. As with COVID, we currently believe this adverse claims experience will moderate over the remainder of the year. And that the underwriting margin for the Direct to Consumer channel will be closer to 17% to 18% of premium in the second half of the year.Finally, with respect to our earnings guidance for 2021. While first quarter earnings were substantially lower than recent quarters due to higher COVID and non-COVID policy obligations, the first quarter operating earnings per share were very close to our expectations, since we fully anticipated 200,000 COVID deaths in the quarter. We now believe we have seen the peak of COVID claims and anticipate a sharp drop-off for the remainder of the year.As noted last quarter, at the midpoint of our guidance, we anticipated approximately 270,000 US COVID deaths over the course of 2021. We still believe that is a reasonable estimate with substantially all of the remaining deaths occurring in the second quarter. As in prior quarters, we continue to estimate that we will incur COVID life claims of roughly $2 million for every 10,000 US deaths.With respect to the higher obligations from non-COVID causes of death, we believe these will also revert to more normal levels over the course of the year as disruptions in healthcare cease, the economy recovers and people are able to socialize again. As compared to our previous guidance, higher policy obligations from non-COVID causes are expected to be offset by favorable health claims experience, higher premium income and the favorable impact of share repurchases. As such we are keeping the midpoint of our guidance for 2021 at $7.36, while narrowing the overall range to $7.21 to $7.51 for the year ended December 31, 2021.Those are my comments. I will now turn the call back to Larry.Larry M. Hutchison -- Co-Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Frank. Those are our comments. We will now open the call up for questions.