  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to the Copart Incorporated second quarter fiscal 2022 earnings call. Just a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. For opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. John North, chief financial officer of Copart Incorporated. Please go ahead, sir.John North -- Chief Financial Officer

 



 During today's call, we'll discuss certain non-GAAP measure, which include adjustments to reverse the effect of certain discrete income tax items, foreign currency-related gain, [Inaudible] income tax benefits and payroll taxes related to accounting for stock option exercises. We provided a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures on our Investor Relations website and in our press release issued yesterday. We believe these non-GAAP measures together with our corresponding GAAP measures are relevant in analyzing our results and assessing our business trends and performance. In addition, our comments today include forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including management's current views with respect to trends, opportunities, and uncertainties in our markets, including the COVID-19 pandemic. These forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. For more detail on the risks associated with our business, we refer you to the section titled Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2021 and each of our subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any forward-looking statements are made as of today and we have no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. And so with that out of the way, I'd like to turn the call over to our president, Jeffrey Liaw.Jeffrey Liaw -- President and Chief Executive Officer, North America Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone. We're pleased to report a strong second quarter for fiscal 2022. I know that over the course of our discussion today, we'll naturally migrate to a discussion of near-term trends such as driving patterns, new vehicle production, total loss frequency, cost inflation, market share trends, and the like.

 



 But I'll start by observing that the long-term fundamentals of our business are as strong as they've ever been, auction liquidity and returns, member recruitment, and participation, our collaborative engagement with our clients day to day and in catastrophic situations, and certainly our aggressive reinvestment in capacity, technology, and people that make all of the above a reality. A quick thank you to the Copart team worldwide for their efforts in making these true. Our results in the second quarter financially were largely a continuation of what we experienced in the first quarter as we observed commerce and mobility, continuing to trend back to the "new normal," which we'll elaborate on to in greater detail; accident and assignment volumes, beginning and continuing to recover; and ASPs remaining elevated as well. As I've done previously, I'll elaborate on a handful of key themes for the quarter and John will provide additional detail and perspective as well. Starting with our unit trends for the quarter, our unit sales globally increased 19% year over year, with a U.S. increase of 21% and international increase of 9%. Our insurance business in the U.S. in particular grew over the second quarter of 2021 by 21.5% and was also up on a two-year comparison versus fiscal 2020 due to the recovery I described a moment ago as well the share gains. Notably, our unit volume has been reduced by increasing used car prices, which I'll described in greater detail momentarily. As we noted a moment ago, driving activity continues to rebound as measured across a number of different dimensions, including simply vehicle miles driven as measured by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the U.K. Department of Transport Statistics and gasoline consumption, and a host of other statistics as well. We note, however, that the character of driving has evolved as well. With downtown office occupancy remaining quite low, driving is less focused at rush hour and more distributed over the course of the day. There are a number of other phenomenon that have emerged with COVID-19 with nuanced outcomes like that one. The next theme I'd tackle is total loss frequency, which for the first time in our memory, we have noted, has declined sequentially from the third quarter calendar quarter of 2021 to the fourth quarter from 19.3% to 19%.

 



 That's, of course, a very fine measure in that case. But in any case, it's the first time we have seen a decline as opposed to the long standing increases we've observed over the course of our 40-year history. This is a reflection of the very strong used car price environment and vehicle availability. Used car availability reducing its time assignment volume relative to what it otherwise would be. As most of you already well know, insurance companies typically compare the cost to repair a vehicle to the difference between the pre-accident value and what they can recover at an auction through Copart for the damaged vehicle. While our auction returns are at/or near all-time highs and have kept pace with used car appreciation on a percentage basis, higher pre-accident values certainly do reduce our volume relative to what they otherwise would have been. As those who are following us in the industry in general would well know, there are a host of countervailing forces also working in our favor, which have been incorporated into our client's total loss decision process to varying degrees. Accident severity and repair costs are up. We are facing, and our clients are facing, larger repair supplements. Repair cycle times are up, parts are delayed, and rentals are both longer and at higher rates than they ever have been. We certainly look to the 40-year trend in the 40-year history of total loss frequency as the right long-term perspective. Total loss frequency as a reminder, was 4% in 1980 and effectively 20% today, a five-fold increase over the company's history. We take that to mean that we're likely experiencing a temporary dislocation as a function of used car prices. The secular trends we have discussed previously remain true. Vehicle complexity rises, vehicle composition becomes less repairable substrates, like composites and aluminum, making cars more expensive to repair, and our auction liquidity and international member base makes them ever more efficient to total instead. We believe that as used vehicle values, potentially peak and trend back to historical norms in the future, we may see some moderation and ASPs will certainly benefit from volume increases as well. Moving to our non-insurance business, we've continued to expand our market share there. Excluding cars, as we customarily do from sources such as wholesalers and charities, our U.S. non-insurance business grew on a unit basis by 4.5%, driven in part by growth in our Copart Direct business, as well as consignments from rental fleets, and financial institutions. Across our various non-insurance channels, we believe our growth is a reflection of market share capture as a function in turn of our auction liquidity and returns, combined with our own proactive selling efforts. The cars we are in the right to sell on behalf of insurance companies through our online auction platform no doubt enables to -- enable us to achieve superior returns for progressively more non-insurance cars as well. And in turn, these dealer, rental, bank, and consumer cars further contribute to our auction liquidity, spinning the flywheel to benefit our insurance sellers as well. Turning then to our average selling prices, we continue to experience ASP strength, as previously noted. Worldwide are selling prices grew 20% year over year for the quarter. The Manheim used car vehicle index is currently at record levels in January at 236.3, an increase of 45% year over year. Since the beginning of the pandemic, our selling prices, frankly, increased earlier, but have kept pace in the aggregate with the Manheim used car index. When we look forward prospectively, we note that a variety of industry sources indicate the chip shortages will persist for 2022 and potentially well into 2023. We've seen a variety of forecasts. We are, from a business perspective, certainly prepared for the influx of volume that may come with softening in used car prices. With that, I'll hand the call to John North.John North -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jeff. I'll make a few comments on our operational results and then we'll take a few questions. For the second quarter, global revenue increased $250 million, or 40.6%, including a $3 million loss due to currency. Global service revenue increased $178.5 million, or 33.5%, primarily due to higher average selling prices and increased volume. U.S. service revenue grew 35.5%, international experienced an increase of 20%. Purchase vehicle sales increased 71.9% or 85.2% -- purchase vehicle sales increased $71.9 million, or 85.2%, due to higher ASPs and increased volumes. U.S. purchased vehicle revenue was up 84% over the prior year and international grew 87%. As a result, purchase vehicle gross profit defined as vehicle sales less cost of vehicle sales increased by $5 million overall. Global gross profit in the second quarter increased by $95.8 million, or 31%, and our gross margin percentage decreased by approximately 350 basis points to 46.5%. U.S. margins declined from 52.2% to 49.4%, and international margins decreased from 37.6% to 31.6%. The margin decline was primarily attributable to two factors. Approximately 150 basis points of decline is due to the mix shift from a greater proportion of purchased vehicles, which have a lower gross margin but a similar profit per vehicle. The balance of our margin contraction is attributable to cost inflation offset partially by higher revenue per unit. There was a very modest impact to margin rate due to Hurricane Ida as we continue to incur expenses due to the sale of vehicles confined to us from that event although we have now sold through approximately 85% of our assignment volume from the storm. I remain excited by the opportunity to increase margin over time as we add additional scale and find further operational efficiencies through technology and innovation. I will now move to a discussion of G&A expenditures, excluding stock compensation and appreciation. G&A spend in the quarter increased $7 million from $35.8 million a year ago to $42.7 million this year, and increased slightly on a sequential basis from $41.1 million last quarter. However, as a percentage of revenue, it was down 88 basis points to 4.9%, compared to 5.8% last year. While G&A can be volatile from period to period, we anticipate G&A to continue to decline as a percentage of revenue as we grow our business and create additional leverage. As a result, our GAAP operating income increased by 34.5% from $258.2 million to $347.3 million. Second quarter income tax expense was $54.6 million at a 16% effective tax rate, reflecting a $4 million tax benefit on the exercise of employee stock options and a $17.5 million benefit associated with a discrete tax item, both of which have been adjusted for purposes of the non-GAAP earnings included in our earnings release. On a non-GAAP basis, our effective tax rate would have been 22.2%. Second quarter GAAP net income increased 49% from $193 million last year to $287 million this year. Adjusted to remove the tax benefits I described a moment ago, non-GAAP net income increased 39% from $191 million last year to $266 million in the second quarter of this year. Our global inventory at the end of January increased 8.4% from last year. This is comprised of a year-over-year increase of 7.7 in the U.S. and 13.2 internationally. The increase in inventory is largely a function of accident frequency and miles driven returning to normal, as Jeff mentioned previously, along with growth in our non-insurance business. Now to briefly update our liquidity and cash flow highlights. As of January 31, 2022, we had $2.4 billion of liquidity, comprised of $1.3 billion of cash and cash equivalents, and an undrawn revolving credit facility with capacity of over a billion dollars. We amended our credit facility in December of last year, increasing the size to $1.25 billion by lowering certain fees. Operating cash flow for the quarter increased by $53.5 five million year over year to $446.5 million, driven by stronger earnings. We invested $91.5 million in capital expenditures in the quarter, and approximately two-thirds of this amount was attributable to capacity expansion. We are continuing to prioritize investments in physical infrastructure and our technology platform, and believe this continued investment creates a durable value in enabling us to serve our current and future customers more effectively. And with that, we'll conclude our prepared remarks and take a few questions. 