  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Thank you. Tiffany, you may begin your conference.Tiffany Kanaga -- Vice President of Global Investor Relations Good morning. Thank you for joining us for the Walgreens Boots Alliance earnings call for the first quarter of fiscal-year 2022. I'm Tiffany Kanaga, vice president of global investor relations. Joining me on today's call are Roz Brewer, our chief executive officer; and James Kehoe, our chief financial officer.

 



 As always, during the conference call, we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors, including those listed on Slide 2 and those outlined in our latest forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement after this presentation, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. You can find our press release and the slides referenced on this call in the Investors section of the Walgreens Boots Alliance website.The slides and the press release also contain further information about non-GAAP financial measures that we will discuss today during this call. I will now turn the call over to Roz. Roz Brewer -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Tiffany, and good morning, everyone. We are off to a very strong start to the fiscal year. First-quarter sales increased 7.6% in constant currency, and adjusted EPS grew 53%, well ahead of our expectations. This strong performance was underpinned by enhanced execution across all of our business segments and supported by ongoing contributions from vaccination and testing.

 



 While testing and vaccinations are tailwinds for our business, I am very proud of the continued success of our core businesses, with strong growth in US retail and robust recovery in our international markets. We are raising our full-year adjusted EPS guidance to low single-digit growth versus flat previously. We are capitalizing on our first-quarter performance and overall business momentum to make incremental investments of roughly $120 million in our people or two percentage points against EPS. As a reminder, building a high-performance culture and winning team is one of our four key strategic priorities and is foundational to the other three: first, transform and align the core; second, build our next growth engine with consumer-centric healthcare solutions; and third, focus the portfolio and optimize capital allocation. Absent these incremental investments, our revised adjusted EPS guidance for fiscal '22 would have been 3% to 5% growth. You may recall that our original guidance already included a four percentage point headwind from investments to build out our healthcare growth engine, investments that we strongly believe will position the company for attractive low teens earnings growth over the long term. As we will show you today, we are delivering well against our Investor Day commitment as laid out in October and making meaningful progress toward our strategic priority. While it remains early days in implementing our vision, the bold steps we are taking are clear and we are committed to creating sustainable value for our shareholders. I want to take a moment to discuss our role in the fight against the pandemic, which demonstrates Walgreens' leadership in promoting the health of the consumers who live in our community. In the US, we administered 15.6 million COVID-19 vaccinations within the quarter. This achievement was made possible through the extraordinary work of our pharmacy team members. We recognize their dedication to supporting our patients, our customers, and our community as we continue to help lead the nation's efforts in combating the pandemic. Nearly one year after we began our vaccination program with 1 COVID shot at a long-term care facility in Columbus, Ohio, we reached an important milestone for Walgreens at the end of the first quarter, 50 million COVID vaccinations administered to members of our community. As of Monday, we have administered over 56 million COVID vaccinations, and we are not slowing down in our efforts. Walgreens began offering COVID vaccine boosters in September. And to date, we have administered over 9 million doses.

 



 As of November, we started administering COVID vaccinations to children ages five to 11 in thousands of stores across the US, just in time as many families prepared to travel and gather for the holiday and variants continued to emerge. We are particularly proud of being the largest pediatric vaccine provider in the pharmacy channel as a powerful testament to the trust that families are placing in our Walgreens pharmacy team members. Importantly, about 40% of Walgreens stores offering the Pfizer COVID vaccine to children ages five to 11 are located in areas with a high social vulnerability index score. Our testing and diagnostics business has also accelerated, with over 22.9 million COVID tests completed to date. Not only will we continue to grow this vital service as part of our pandemic effort, we are building on this platform as we are developing a wider range of testing and diagnostic solutions for our customers. Our execution in vaccines and testing, our outperformance in first quarter, and our healthcare investments are clear steps toward fulfilling our vision to be the leading partner in reimagining local healthcare and well-being for all. We are making significant progress toward the broader commitments we established in October, along our four strategic priorities. Let me provide you with some details on several important initiatives. First, we are transforming and aligning the core business and building a pharmacy of the future that will enable and support our healthcare strategy. We had an especially strong first quarter online, including buy online pickup in store. Digital sales were up 88% in the US, driven by 3.6 million same-day pickup orders. Walgreens saw its biggest Cyber Monday ever. And importantly, average order value is about $30 online versus $20 in stores, expanding our overall basket size as the digital channel continues to mature. We are in the early innings of possibilities for Walgreens' digital platform. We've enrolled over 92 million myWalgreens members, up 7.2 million since the fourth quarter. Additionally, our alternative profit businesses are growing nicely, including media advertising and financial services. Second, we're building a platform of consumer-centric healthcare solutions, which we expect to fuel our next phase of growth. We closed on our Shields and VillageMD majority investments in October and November, respectively, and our CareCentrix investment is scheduled to close by the end of the third quarter. We have 81 VillageMD co-located centers now open as the rollout has accelerated to a pace of a new opening every four to five days for calendar-year 2022. Our consumer health app is live with our Blue Shield California and Kroger partners for their qualifying members. We are operating 47 health quarters, including 10 recent openings in California. We're looking at a rapid cadence of adding a new health corner every week on average in 2022. Third, we are refocusing our portfolio and optimizing capital allocation. We are applying a rigorous strategic lens to our equity investment and exploring all options to unlock value. Most recently, we have agreed to acquire 100% ownership of both AllianceRx Walgreens Prime and our German wholesale JV, creating greater agility ahead. Finally, we are building a diverse winning team that will underpin our strategic priorities. We're getting even closer to the consumer by adding Tracey Brown as our chief customer officer on the back of her innovation at the American Diabetes Association and Sam's Club. Our chief transformation and integration officer, Anita Allemand, is applying her experience at Optum and CVS to drive alignment across our initiatives. We're forging ahead in healthcare with Dr. Sashi Moodle as our chief clinical officer, and Ramita Tandon, as our chief clinical trials officer, drawing on their experiences in care delivery and clinical solutions while at Anthem, ICON, and CareMore. And Holly May, as our global chief human resources officer, is driving our high-performance culture. I'm excited to share even more news with you in the weeks to come as we continue to round out the team. As our results in part demonstrate, we have a deep and experienced bench in place to drive our strategic priorities today. And I'm pleased to say we are in the final stages of welcoming a leader for our Walgreens Health segment. To bring a little more of what I was describing to life, let me share with you an anecdote from one of our new health corners in California. On just its first day of operation in November, we saw the value proposition in action. A Blue Shield California member introduced himself and told us he's diabetic and struggles to make his visits to his primary care physician for his A1C testing. He was thrilled to learn he can do that here, along with his family. This is just one example of how we can close care gaps through our convenient offering. As the health corners roll out, I have increased confidence that when executed at scale, its innovative and consumer-centric strategy will drive significant growth and value creation ahead. We are connecting our physical health corners with our digital app and our other unique complementary assets to meaningfully reduce costs and improve health outcomes and equity. And when you factor in the continued expansion of co-located clinics with VillageMD, nearly half of our footprint will be covered. We are building community engagement today as only Walgreens can do, through our trusted customer relationships, our local knowledge and our deep data insights. With that, I'll hand it over to James to provide more color on our results and our outlook.James Kehoe -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Roz, and good morning. In summary, we had an excellent start to the year, with focused execution across all of our businesses. Adjusted EPS was $1.68, well ahead of expectations and up 53% versus prior year on a constant currency basis. We executed strongly in COVID vaccinations and testing. US retail accounts were the highest in 20 years, and the international markets continued to recover nicely. Operating cash flow was $1.1 billion in the quarter, with free cash flow of $645 million. The strong first-quarter performance allows us to increase our full-year adjusted EPS guidance from flat to low single-digit growth. Let's now look at the results in more detail. First-quarter sales advanced 7.6% on a constant currency basis, reflecting strong comp growth in Walgreens and the International segment. Adjusted operating income increased 48.5% on a constant currency basis, driven by strong gross profit performance in both pharmacy and retail in the US and a continued rebound in international sales and profitability. Adjusted EPS was $1.68 in the quarter, a constant currency increase of 53% driven almost entirely by adjusted operating income. The result was aided by around $0.10 or nine percentage points of phasing benefits. GAAP EPS increased by $4.58 to $4.13, reflecting a $2.5 billion after-tax gain in the current quarter related to the valuation of our prior investments in VillageMD and Shields as well as a $1.2 billion charge net of tax from the company's equity earnings in AmerisourceBergen in the year-ago quarter. Now let's move to the US segment. Sales increased 3.2% in the quarter, with a strong performance from Walgreens more than offsetting a 270 basis point headwind from a decline in the AllianceRx Walgreens Prime business. Adjusted gross profit increased 12.3%, with both pharmacy and retail growing nicely. Strong sales growth was partially offset by lower reimbursement and higher shrink costs. Adjusted SG&A spend increased 4.2% in the quarter to 17.2% of sales, 20 basis points higher than last year. The year-on-year increase was primarily due to investments relating to vaccinations and labor, partly offset by savings from the transformational cost management program and some phasing benefits. Adjusted operating income increased 46.3% as the strong gross profit growth more than compensated for higher costs associated with the COVID-19 vaccination program. Now let's look in more detail at US pharmacy. Pharmacy sales grew 1.1%, including the negative impact from AllianceRx Walgreens Prime. Comparable pharmacy sales were up 6.8%, while comp scripts increased 6.2% with vaccinations accounting for 535 basis points of the script growth. We completed 15.6 million COVID-19 vaccinations in the quarter and administered 6.5 million COVID-19 tests. We are now administering COVID-19 tests at around 7,000 stores. Flu shots were down as we saw a return to more normalized levels compared to the record levels last year. Additionally, underlying scripts were challenged by staffing shortages and temporary operating hour reductions. Adjusted gross profit grew nicely as strong sales growth at Walgreens more than offset reimbursement pressure. Turning next to our US retail business. Comp retail sales increased 10.6%. And excluding tobacco, comps were up 11.7%. Compared to pre-COVID levels on a two-year stack basis, comp sales were up low double digits. We saw broad growth across all categories led by 24.7% growth in health and wellness, driven by at-home COVID-19 tests and cough, cold, flu. Transactions were up 9% and discretionary categories performed well, with beauty comp sales growing 16.6% and personal care, up 11.6%. Strong sales growth drove an increase in gross profit. However, gross margin declined slightly, constrained by higher shrink from organized crime tests and increased import freight costs. Turning next to the international segment. And as always, I'll talk to constant currency numbers. Sales increased 34.2% in the quarter, including a 25.6 percentage point uplift from the formation of our wholesale joint venture in Germany. We are lapping the formation of the Germany JV on November 1, 2020, with the prior quarter, including only one month of sales. Excluding this impact, sales were up 8.6%, reflecting the ongoing recovery and strong execution across most international markets, particularly in the UK, where sales advanced 13.4%. Adjusted operating income was $164 million in the quarter, up 89% versus prior year, led by higher sales and tight cost control. Let's now look in more detail at Boots UK Comparable pharmacy sales increased 8.8%. Stronger demand for services contributed to the increase, with sales up more than 200% year on year, benefiting from COVID-19 testing. Flu vaccinations were also up, and we recorded our largest ever season, with 2 million vaccinations during the first quarter, up 150% compared to last year. These positive developments were only partially offset by the non-repeat of favorable prior-year phasing of NHS funding. Comparable retail sales increased 16.3%, reflecting a recovery in footfall and strong commercial execution. Market share strengthened across all categories, with beauty performing particularly well. Despite these strong results, footfall in the quarter remains around 20% below pre-COVID levels, with particular challenges in travel locations. We do, however, see continued strength in basket size, which was up around 12% in the first quarter compared to pre-COVID levels. Finally, boots.com continued to do very well. Digital sales almost doubled compared to the equivalent pre-COVID quarter and now account for more than 15% of total retail sales. Looking ahead, we are monitoring the impact of Omicron. The UK government announced a move to slightly tighter restrictions, which started on December 13. We expect that footfall will remain sensitive to new COVID variants. Turning next to Walgreens Health. This is our first quarter reporting results for our new Walgreens Health segment. Our majority investments in Shields and VillageMD closed on October 29 and November 24, respectively. Shields is immediately accretive, with sales of $25 million and adjusted operating income of $10 million in the quarter. Reflecting six days of ownership, VillageMD had sales of $26 million and an adjusted operating loss of $3 million. For this fiscal year, we anticipate VillageMD to be dilutive to EPS, consistent with our October statements. Organic investments in Walgreens Health were slightly lower than expected due to the timing of expenditures. We expect to see rising investments over the course of the year. Let's now look at some of the key metrics for Walgreens Health. In addition to Clover and Blue Shield, we continue to work with other interested partners and we are approaching our December 2022 goal of 2 million lives. As we scale our access to lives and partnerships, we will continue to build out our Walgreens Health Corners, with a goal of more than 100 by the end of 2022, with 47 already up and running. We continue to expand the VillageMD footprint and will be in expansion mode for the foreseeable future. VillageMD currently has 257 locations across 18 markets, 81 of which are co-located with Walgreens stores, up from 55 at the end of fiscal '21. The goal is to have at least 160 co-located clinics in place by the end of '22. Both VillageMD and Shields are on a high-growth trajectory. On a pro forma basis, they delivered strong sales growth in their most recent quarter, with VillageMD advancing 182% and Shields growing 62%. Overall, we are very excited about our growth potential. Turning next to cash flow. We generated $645 million of free cash flow in the first quarter, $118 million below prior year. Strong growth in operating income was more than offset by the phasing of working capital, prior year one-time benefits associated with the passing of the CARES Act and the increased capital expenditures behind key growth initiatives. Turning now to full-year guidance. We are raising our adjusted EPS guidance from flat to low single-digit growth. We now expect higher growth from our base business, reflecting a strong first quarter and higher levels of vaccinations and testing. We expect 30 million vaccinations this year, 5 million higher than our previous guidance. Our Walgreens Health segment is tracking well against its key milestones, with both the Shields and VillageMD transactions closing in the first quarter and the Walgreens Health organic business continuing to invest in future growth. Within this guidance, we've reflected our decision to increase investments in our team members by an incremental $120 million. As highlighted earlier by Roz, without this investment, our full-year adjusted EPS growth would have been 3% to 5%. Let me now provide some additional color on the guidance raise, including puts and takes versus prior guidance. As mentioned, we are planning for higher vaccinations in the fiscal year. Additionally, our US retail comps were very strong in the first quarter, and we have seen this momentum continue into the second quarter. And we are also driving tight cost management across all of our segments. Balancing this, we made a decision to increase our labor investments. Recent labor challenges led to somewhat softer script volumes in the first quarter, and these investments should help improve the situation. Additionally, as with many of our peers, we are experiencing higher rates of shrink loss due to organized crime theft. Inflation is also on the rise. And while we expect to pass through the majority of these higher costs, there may be some short-term impacts. In summary, we are raising our adjusted EPS guidance to low single-digit growth driven largely by our US segment. And let me now update you on some of the guidance metrics we provided during our recent Investor Day. Sales in the US are now expected to be around two percentage points higher than previous guidance, driven by strength in both pharmacy and front of store. As a result, adjusted operating income is anticipated to be flat to up slightly, better than our previous guidance. Sales projections for international have also improved to 9% to 11% growth mainly due to improved market growth for our German wholesale business. We still expect International adjusted operating income growth of more than 50%. Walgreens Health remains on track. Sales will be slightly lower due to the timing of regulatory approval related to CareCentrix. However, this has an immaterial impact on earnings. Finally, we expect an adjusted tax rate of around 16%, consistent with prior guidance. With that, let me now pass it back to Roz for her closing remarks.Roz Brewer -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, James. To summarize, we are executing with a very strong start to the year and an increased fiscal 2022 outlook. WBA's transformation is underway, and I am pleased with our rapid progress along our strategic priorities. I'm looking forward to continuing this dialogue with you about our execution and progress next week at the JPMorgan Healthcare Conference. We are energized and focused on reimagining healthcare and well-being for everyone, with a clear path toward accelerated value creation across all our stakeholders. Now I'd like to open the line for questions. Operator? 