  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the first quarter 2022 Sealed Air Corporation earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference may be recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your host today, Louise Lagache. Please go ahead.Louise Lagache -- Global Business Services Transition Manager Thank you, and good morning, everyone. With me today are Ted Doheny, our CEO, and Christopher, our CFO. Before we begin our call, I would like to note that we have provided a slide presentation to guide our discussion. In addition to our results and outlook, Ted will go through a deep dive on SEE digital digital packaging features. Please visit our website where today's webcast and presentation can be downloaded from IR website at sealedair.com. Statements made during this call stating management's outlook or predictions for future periods are forward-looking statements. These statements are based only on information that is now available to us. We encourage you to review the information in the section entitled forward-looking statements in our earnings release and slide presentation, which applies to this call.Additionally, our future performance may differ due to a number of factors. Many of these factors are listed in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and as revised and updated on our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current report on Form 8-K, which you can also find on our website or on the Sealed Air website. We discuss final measures that do not conform to U.S. GAAP. You will find important information on our use of these measures and their reconciliation to U.S. GAAP in our earnings release. Included in the appendix of today's presentation, you will find U.S. GAAP financial results that corresponds to the non-U.S. GAAP measures we reference throughout this presentation. I will now turn the call over to Ted. Operator, please turn to Slide 3. Ted? Ted Doheny -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Louise, and thank all of you for our first quarter 2022 earnings call. Chris and I will discuss our Q1 results and our 2022 outlook. I will first recap our quarter performance and then provide a deep dive into our digital transformation. After that, Chris will review in more detail our financial results and our revised 2022 outlook. On Slide 3, you can see we delivered strong sales and earnings despite sustained inflationary pressure and the volatility caused by numerous disruptions around the world. Our SEE operating engine is performing. In the quarter, net sales were up 12% to $1.4 billion and adjusted EBITDA was up 22% to $327 million. Adjusted earnings per share was up $1.12, up 43% compared to a year ago. Free cash flow for Q1 was a use of cash of $19 million as we continue to invest in our operations to support growth and productivity. On Slide 4, you can see our SEE operating model. As presented last quarter, we aim to achieve 5% to 7% annual sales growth over the next three years. We are targeting to have more than 1% of this growth to be digitally generated by 2025. We're also targeting to have 50% of our total sales to be generated online by 2025. We are targeting adjusted EBITDA growth at 7% to 9%. We've updated our SEE operating model for free cash flow conversion to greater than $0.45 to align with our increased capital expenditures in our operations to approximately 5% of sales. Finally, we are raising our 2022 sales and earnings guidance, and Chris will talk about this in more detail later. Let's turn to Slide 5 to take a look at our markets. We're transitioning to a market and customer-centric company, creating value, and delivering savings through automation, digital and sustainability solutions powering our engine to grow faster than the markets we serve. While Chris will give you more detail on our geographic performance, I will focus on activities in our top markets. We experienced strong sales performance across most of our markets. We continue to generate increased demand for our automation, digital and sustainability solutions. In Q1, equipment and system sales were flat in constant dollars due to component shortages and sanctions imposed on Russia, mainly impacting our Food Equipment business. Despite this, I want to highlight that equipment bookings continued to be strong and were up more than 20% this quarter, led by strong demand in auto box. Auto box bookings more than doubled compared to Q1 last year, while food equipment bookings were up double digits even in a challenging environment. We are investing to double our equipment production capacity in the next three years. You can find more details on our SEE automation business on Slide 21 and 22 in the appendix. Turning to Slide 6. We'll now take you through a deep dive on our SEE digital transformation journey. We start with our vision statement to become a world-class digitally driven company, automating sustainable packaging solutions. Our digital operating model will shift our business from an offline to an online operation through e-commerce. We'll be ramping up our digital sales aggressively, generating an additional revenues in excess of $300 million over the next three years. We're excited to launch our new digital brand, prismiq, powered by possibility. Our digital business will include digital packaging, design services, and direct e-commerce sales. Let's look at Slide 7. We are transforming SEE's culture and DNA, including a new people-plus digital organization. We are building a caring people-first, digitally driven culture with teams passionate about engineering a future where packaging plays a powerful part in everyone's daily life. Beyond nurturing our people, we are investing in new technologies and systems as well as adapting our processes to new ways of delivering our solutions. We're ushering in new competitive capabilities, while simplifying our processes to new value through packaging solutions, packaging that's digital, experiential and intelligent, packaging solutions that transform data into results. We're doing this customer so they can engage with SEE in new and different ways, while enabling them to directly connect with consumers. We're changing the way we work, proactively swarming to connect everyone without functional, market or geographic barriers, and partnering with our customers. Moving to Slide 8. Last week, we introduced our new digital packaging brand, prismiq, Packaging Made Brilliant. Prismiq will represent our digital packaging solutions from ideation to consumer engagement, design services, digital printing and smart packaging. Prismiq solutions portfolio allows SEE to embed digital printing capabilities within our manufacturing operations as well as in our customers' operations, driving efficiency, personalization directly at each package. We are bringing together both the operational and experiential journeys of our customers to create digitally empowered packaging. Using design and digital printing as an enabler, we are innovating so each package will be able to provide valuable product information, sustainability indicators, traceability through unique scannable identification markers and so much more. Our end-to-end cloud-based platform will generate package specific digital IDs that collect and manage data along the value chain. Customers can access and leverage those insights through dashboards and analytics. We are leveraging world-class partners like Adobe, to build scale and speed in digitizing billions of packages we produce today and the many more in the future. Ultimately, we are elevating packaging from its current functional and linear state to a digital ecosystem where it's a billboard for engagement and efficiency. Our proprietary digital printing technology is a core pillar for this new brand. The possibilities powered by prismiq are endless. We are excited by the value this will unleash for our customers. Let me now turn to Slide 9. Here, we highlight our breakthrough digital printing technology as well as our bold moves to rapidly expand our network penetration globally and our e-commerce platform. We've been mobilizing to develop digital printing technology for our unique applications and substrates in our operations around the world. Alongside our prismiq brand, we are unveiling a first of its kind proprietary 54-inch digital press that will offer a combination of wide web, high-speed, full color, water-based food-grade inks and double-sided printing capabilities for fiber-based materials as well as film-based flexible and shrinkable materials. We're also using this technology to integrate printing systems in line with our operations, often cutting the footprint down 10x from what it's replacing. Prismiq digital printing is bringing speed to our graphic services, dramatically reducing minimum order quantities, providing faster prototyping and now offering serialization that enables tracking and tracing and blockchain capabilities. We've already invested well over $50 million in digital printing technology and have plans to double that investment with the goal of taking our entire platform to digital. Now moving to Slide 10. I would like to show how digital printing is a critical enabler of our SEE sustainable ecosystem as we work to create a circular economy for packaging. Our goal is to offer the best solutions at the right price and make them sustainable. To make this scale impossible for the billions of packages we produce, we are leveraging world-class partnerships with suppliers and customers. Our game-changing innovations in digital, automation and sustainability are designed to help close the loop on the circular economy. Our SEE ecosystem connects our internal operations to our customers' operations and consumers at home. In this loop, our SEE touchless automation team is gaining momentum. We're developing these innovations across our entire network to eliminate waste, simplify processes and remove people from harm's way, and now with our prismiq digital printing, we can move faster. Our touchless automation will enable our SEE operating engine to produce flawless quality, world-class productivity and exceed our sustainability goals. We're investing in bold ideas like prismiq, Packaging Made Brilliant, that will disrupt the markets we serve and our own business. We are building a caring people-first culture with talented, passionate and diverse teams that believe they can make our world better than they find it. I will now pass the call to Chris to review our financial results in more detail.Chris Stephens -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Ted, and good morning, everyone. Let's start on Slide 11 to review our first quarter net sales growth by segment and by region. In Q1, net sales were up 12% to $1.4 billion. In constant dollars, net sales were up 15% with 18% growth in Food and 10% growth in Protective. By region, Americas was up 18%, EMEA up 11% and APAC up 4%. On Slide 12, you can see organic sales volume and pricing trends by segment and by region. In Q1, price was up 16% overall, while volumes were down 1%. Q1 price was favorable 17% for Food and 15% in Protective. Most of the price realized in Q1 was a result of prior actions and formula pass-throughs. These actions to increase price with care to gain share are in response to ongoing inflationary pressures. As always, we are working directly with our customers to meet their needs, save their money and drive productivity. Food volumes were up 2%, driven by EMEA up 7% and APAC up 3%, while Americas was down 1%. Protective volumes were down 3% with declines in all regions, mainly driven by normalized demand trends given the strong demand in Q1 '21. On Slide 13, we present our consolidated sales and adjusted EBITDA loss. Having already discussed sales, let me comment on our Q1 adjusted EBITDA performance. Q1 adjusted EBITDA of $327 million increased $59 million or 22% compared to last year with margins of 23.1%, up 190 basis points. We achieved positive price realization this quarter. However, labor and nonmaterial inflation continues to rise at a rapid rate, impacting year over year earnings by $24 million compared to $13 million a year ago. In addition, operating costs of negative $30 million includes incremental investments to support future growth. Productivity gains totaled $10 million in Q1 and we remain on track to realize approximately $60 million of productivity gains from the completion of Reinvent SEE initiatives and performance of our SEE operating engine in 2022. Adjusted earnings per diluted share in Q1 was $1.12 compared to $0.78 in Q1 '21. Our adjusted tax rate was 25.2% compared to 27.6% in the same period last year. We were an active buyer of our stock in the quarter with approximately three million shares repurchased valued at approximately $200 million. Our weighted average diluted shares outstanding in Q1 '22 were 149.5 million compared to 155.4 million in Q1 '21. At quarter end, we had $696 million remaining under our authorized share repurchase program. Turning to segment results on Slide 14, starting with Food. In Q1, Food net sales of $808 million were up 18% in constant dollars. Price was up 17% year over year, with all regions contributing to positive price, while volume growth was 2%. Automation sales, which includes equipment, systems, parts and services accounts for approximately 6% of the segment sales and were up mid-single digits in the quarter. Adjusted EBITDA of $200 million in Q1 increased 28% compared to last year, with margins at 24.8%, up 250 basis points. On the Protective side, net sales of $610 million increased 12% on an organic basis. Price was up 15% in the quarter, again, with all regions contributing to positive price, while volumes saw a decline of 3% in the quarter as we faced normalized demand trends. As a reminder, volumes in Protective were up 13% in the first quarter last year, fueled by the strong growth in fulfillment, e-commerce and the rebound of industrial end markets following COVID shutdowns in 2020. As for automation sales in the quarter, which accounts for approximately 8% of the segment's sales, they were up double digits in the quarter. Adjusted EBITDA of $127 million increased 16% in Q1 with margins at 20.9%, up 140 basis points. Now let's turn to free cash flow on Slide 15. In the first three months of 2022, free cash flow was a use of cash of $19 million compared to a source of cash of $36 million in the same period a year ago. This $55 million swing was largely driven by increased working capital needs, capex to support growth and productivity, plus the absence of a $24 million federal tax refund in Q1 '21. On Slide 16, we outlined our purpose-driven capital allocation strategy focused on creating economic value. We maintain a strong balance sheet while driving attractive returns on invested capital and supporting profitable growth initiatives. We are focusing our capex on touchless automation, digital and sustainability. As Ted noted, we are investing in smart packaging and digital printing and see many opportunities to expand our presence in attractive growth markets and geographies. Let's turn to Slide 17 to review our updated 2022 outlook. We are raising our net sales and earnings guidance, reflecting our strong Q1 performance and the outlook for the remainder of the year. For net sales, we now estimate $5.85 billion to $6.05 billion, a year over year increase of 6% to 9% as reported compared to our previously provided $5.8 billion to $6 billion range. Our organic growth forecast is 9% to 12%, which assumes approximately 1% in volume and 9% in price at the midpoint. Full year adjusted EBITDA is now expected to be in the range of $1.22 billion to $1.25 billion. This compares to our previous guide of $1.2 billion to $1.24 billion. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to grow 8% to 10% and implies an adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 20%. For adjusted EPS, we now expect to be in the range of $4.05 to $4.20. This assumes depreciation and amortization of approximately $250 million and an adjusted effective tax rate of approximately 26%, net interest expense of approximately $160 million and approximately 149 million shares outstanding. And lastly, we are reiterating our outlook for free cash flow, which is in the range of $510 million to $550 million. So in summary, we are executing on our growth strategy, driving productivity and cash generation and aligning our business around the SEE operating model. This is reflected in our Q1 performance and revised 2022 outlook. With that, let me now pass the call back to Ted for closing remarks. Ted?Ted Doheny -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Chris. Let's turn to Slide 18, where we have our purpose statement. As an ESG centered company, our purpose guides everything we do. This is how we are making our vision a reality. Our SEE operating engine is performing and maintain momentum despite considerable disruptions and sustained inflation. I'm proud of our team's efforts and perseverance operating in challenging times. We continue to invest in automation, digital and sustainability to deliver savings and productivity for our customers. Please visit our website to see our full prismiq, Digital Packaging Made Brilliant launch to find out more about where we are going. We are creating long-term value for our stakeholders and making our world better than we find it. Continuing with the theme of providing investors deep dives into our growth drivers of automation, digital and sustainability, next quarter, we plan to provide a deep dive into sustainability. With that, I'll now open the call for questions. Operator, we'd like to begin the Q&A session. 