  OperatorGood morning. My name is Steven, and I will be your facilitator today. I would like to welcome everyone to the UPS investor relations second-quarter-2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Mr. Scott Childress, investor relations officer. Sir, the floor is yours.Scott Childress -- Investor Relations Officer Good morning, and welcome to the UPS second-quarter 2021 earnings call. Joining me today are Carol Tome, our CEO; and Brian Newman, our CFO. Before we begin, I want to remind you that some of the comments we'll make today are forward-looking statements within the federal securities laws and address our expectation for the future performance or operating results of our company. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which are described in our 2020 Form 10-K, subsequently filed Form 10-Qs and other reports that we file with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports, when filed, are available on the UPS Investor Relations website and from the SEC. For the second quarter of 2021, GAAP results include after-tax transformation and other charges of $11 million or $0.01 per diluted share. Also in the second quarter, on April 30, we closed on the sale of UPS Freight, which triggered remeasurement of certain of our pension and postretirement benefit plans. The remeasurement resulted in a $2.1 billion reduction in pension and postretirement benefit obligations on our balance sheet, primarily, due to higher discount rates.The vast majority of the remeasurement impact fell within the corridor. So the impact to GAAP net income was negligible at approximately $3 million. Unless stated otherwise, our comments will refer to adjusted results, which exclude transformation and other charges. The webcast of today's call, along with the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures, is available on the UPS Investor Relations website. Following our prepared remarks, we will take questions from those joining us via the teleconference. Following our prepared remarks, we will take questions from those joining us via the teleconference. If you wish to ask a question, press 1, then 0 on your phone to enter the queue. Please ask only one question so that we may allow as many as possible to participate. You may rejoin the queue for the opportunity to ask an additional question. And now I'll turn the call over to Carol. Carol Tome -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Scott, and good morning, everyone. Let me start by thanking all UPSers for their hard work and efforts. Our better, not bigger framework, is enabling consistently high service levels and producing improved financial results. Our team is truly moving our role forward by delivering what matters. More specifically, we are winning in the most attractive parts of the markets with new capabilities, like our fastest ground ever weekend initiatives and improvements in our customer experience journeys. We are continuing to deliver life-saving COVID-19 vaccines, and our healthcare growth initiative is gaining momentum. We are also driving sustainable revenue per piece growth through targeted revenue quality strategies. And lastly, we are driving productivity improvements in the network and implementing targeted transformational expense reductions. Our second-quarter financial results across all segments were much better than we anticipated. Consolidated revenue in the quarter rose 14.5% from last year to $23.4 billion, and operating profit grew 40.8% to $3.3 billion. As we expected, U.S. average daily volume for the quarter was down slightly from one year ago, driven primarily by tough comparisons, due to the jump in e-commerce-related volume last year, but our revenue quality in the U.S. was much improved, due to a change in customer mix, as well as our revenue quality strategies. All of our business segments delivered record quarterly operating profit and expanded operating margins on a year-over-year basis. In the U.S., operating margin was 11.6%, our highest second-quarter operating margin since 2017. In the international segment, operating profit increased 41.3% and operating margin reached a record 24.7%. And in supply chain solutions, continued strength in freight forwarding and healthcare drove operating margin of 9.7%, a record for the segment. While we closely monitor external factors, like the tight labor market and low inventory levels, the execution of our initiatives has put us well on our way to achieving the high end of our 2023 financial targets. Brian will share more details with you during his remarks. Moving to our Customer First, People Led, Innovation Driven strategy, we strive to provide our customers with the best digital experience, powered by our global Smart Logistics Network. Customer First is about creating a frictionless customer experience and building the capabilities that matter the most to our customers. During the second quarter, Saturday Ground delivery volume grew 13%, as we continued expanding our weekend coverage. This is an example of better, not bigger, as we are expanding service with very little capital spending. We are currently halfway through our efforts to expand our existing centers and turn on Saturday operations in more than 200 additional centers. By the end of October of this year, we will cover about 90% of the U.S. population on Saturdays, which will further extend our market-leading Saturday commercial delivery and pickup services and support our ongoing Sunday delivery services. These improvements benefit all of our customers, large and small, by enabling faster time in transit and expanding capacity. As we execute our strategy, our focus is on growing value share. We are changing the growth targets of the company and are no longer focused solely on volume growth. Instead, we are creating new capabilities and leveraging our competitive advantages to grow revenue and profits from the most attractive parts of the market like SMB, B2B, healthcare and international, while at the same time providing value and service to targeted large enterprise customers. It's early days, but we believe our strategy is working. For example, in the U.S., we grew SMB average daily volume, including platforms, by 21.6%, and we saw a total U.S. revenue per piece increased by 13.4%. As you know, healthcare is one of our wildly important Customer First initiatives. In the second quarter, healthcare customer revenue on a global basis grew 19.8% and contributed to margin expansion in all three segments. To grow in the healthcare sector, we are creating new capabilities like our recent launch of UPS Cold Chain Solutions. And we're deploying sophisticated solutions that customers want into new geographies like the expansion of UPS Premier to Canada and Europe. These actions are advancing our leadership position in the global healthcare logistics market. To support growth in our international segment, we continue to invest broadly, including the launch of our first-ever daily flight from Osaka to Shenzhen, thus significantly speeding up our time and transit across multiple trade lines. We are also improving the customer experience across 16 journeys to make them simpler and more helpful. One of the customer pain points we are addressing is claims. We recently completed a successful pilot that shortened the average claim processing time from 20 days to five. The improvements we made resulted in a 1.9% reduction in churn among pilot participants. We are rolling out our new claims process to all U.S. SMB customers over the next 12 months. To put this into perspective, every 1 percentage point reduction in U.S. SMB churn is worth about $170 million in annual revenue. Moving to the People Led component of our strategy, our focus here is to make UPS a great place to work so that our people feel confident recommending UPS to others. During the second quarter, our executive leadership team spent many days in our operations around the world, delivering packages, walking our facilities and talking with our people. When we visit, we don't take a list, we bring back a list of the actions we can take to simplify our processes, drive productivity and improve the quality of the work environment for our people. I cannot say enough about the commitment of UPSers who, over the last year, rose to meet the challenges of elevated volume, while ensuring great service to our customers day in and day out. I'd like to recognize our 38,000 part-time management employees in the U.S. that work primarily in our preload, hub, sort and air operations. In appreciation of their extraordinary efforts, we provided them with a onetime financial award in the second quarter. People Led builds on a strong foundation, and we will continue living our values, modernizing our policies and rewarding our people to make UPS an even better place to work and employer of choice. Turning to Innovation Driven. Our disciplined approach to capital allocation is generating significant levels of free cash flow. In fact, in the first six months of this year, we generated $6.8 billion in free cash flow. This is a record. We've generated more free cash flow in the first six months of this year than we previously generated in any full year at any time in our company's history. Also in the second quarter, we completed the divestiture of UPS Freight, a capital-intensive, low returning part of our business. This and other actions have greatly improved our financial condition from one year ago, as Brian will detail. And looking ahead, we expect to see a significant increase in our return on invested capital this year. Innovation Driven will also help us reach carbon neutrality by 2050. In August, we will publish our annual sustainability reports, which include our 19th GRI content index, along with our second Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, or SASB report, and our first Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, or TCFD report. Social and environmental stewardship goes right to our core values, and we remain committed to providing investors transparency through our expanded ESG disclosures. Next month, UPS will celebrate our 114th anniversary. It is such an honor for me to guide this company through our next chapter. We are a purpose-driven company, and we are investing in the capabilities that matter most to our customers to create value for our shareowners. Thank you. And now I'll turn the call over to Brian.Brian Newman -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Carol, and good morning. In my comments today, I will cover four areas, starting with macroeconomic trends, then our second-quarter results. Next, I'll review cash and shareowner returns. And lastly, I'll wrap up with some comments on our outlook. OK. Let's start with the macro. All major economic indicators remain strong, with the economic recovery progressing faster than expected. In the second quarter, looking at IHS forecast, global GDP is expected to finish up 10.6% and U.S. GDP is expected to be up 12.5%. However, robust economic growth and high consumer demand is putting pressure on global supply chains and inventory replenishment. In fact, the U.S. inventory to sales ratio declined further from the figure I shared last quarter and was 1.09 in June. As a point of reference, for the three years prior to COVID, this ratio ran between 1.4 and 1.5. For the full year, global GDP is now expected to grow 5.8% and U.S. GDP is expected to grow 6.6%. Accordingly, as we look at the back half of the year, while economic growth is forecast to remain positive, the rate of growth slows. Moving to our second-quarter consolidated performance. We delivered double-digit top and bottom-line growth. Consolidated revenue increased 14.5% to $23.4 billion. Consolidated operating profit totaled $3.3 billion, 40.8% higher than last year. And I'll note that this is the first time UPS has generated quarterly operating profit over $3 billion. Consolidated operating margin expanded to 14%, which was 260 basis points above last year. And diluted earnings per share was $3.06, up 43.7% from the same period last year. Now let's take a look at the segments. In U.S. domestic, our mix improvement and other revenue quality initiatives, as well as productivity efforts, continue to drive strong results. As expected, last year's surge in essential goods delivered to homes created tough comparisons on a year-over-year basis. As a result, total average daily volume in the U.S. in the second quarter of this year was down 619,000 pieces per day or 2.9%, due to a decline in SurePost volume of 1.3 million packages per day. The decline in SurePost volume was partially offset by double-digit percentage growth in Ground commercial and Next Day Air volume. The unique year-over-year comparisons were also visible in our volume mix. B2C average daily volume was down 15.8% year over year. Conversely, B2B volume increased 25.7%. All industry sectors grew B2B volume, led by retail as more foot traffic returned to the brick-and-mortar locations. In fact, B2B retail posted its first year-over-year increase in volumes since 2019. And healthcare remained a bright spot with B2B volume up 28.6%. Customer mix continued to be positive as our network enhancements drove SMB volume growth, including platforms of 21.6%. And in the second quarter, SMB made up 27.2% of U.S. domestic volume. For the quarter, U.S. domestic generated revenue of $14.4 billion, up 10.2%, driven by a record 13.4% increase in revenue per piece with fuel driving 220 basis points of the revenue per-piece growth rate. We are pleased with the progress of our revenue quality efforts. The combination of base rate increases, surcharges and mix improvements generated double-digit revenue per piece percentage increases in our Next Day Air and Ground products. Turning to costs. Total expense grew 7.3%, driven by three main areas. First, fuel represented 220 basis points of the increase. Second, were the enhancements to speed up our network and expand weekend operations, which accounted for around 200 basis points of the total expense increase. And finally, another 210 basis points came from an increase in employee benefit expenses, as more employees became eligible for health, welfare and retirement benefits and from the reinstatement of the federal excise tax. Looking at efficiencies. We continue to see productivity improvements within package and inside operations. In fact, direct labor hours were down 1.4%, which includes a double-digit percentage reduction in overtime hours. Most notably in the quarter, revenue growth was significantly above expense growth, which generated positive operating leverage. In summary, the U.S. domestic segment delivered $1.7 billion in operating profit, an increase of $460 million or 37.9% compared to last year, and operating margin expanded 230 basis points. Moving to international. The segment delivered another quarter of record operating profit. Total average daily volume was up 12.7%. B2B volume grew 25% on a year-over-year basis, with growth across all industries and customer segments. Conversely, B2C volume was down 4.1%. These year-over-year comparisons reflect the unique pandemic effects from last year, as B2C volume doubled in the second quarter of 2020. Total export average daily volume was up 14% on a year-over-year basis with all regions, except Asia posting double-digit growth. Asia export volume faced difficult comps and was down 5.8%, compared to the remarkable growth rate of 46.8% in the second quarter of last year, driven by the surge of PPE. For the quarter, international revenue was up 30% to $4.8 billion, with all major regions growing revenue by double-digit percentages. We generated positive operating leverage in the quarter. Revenue per piece was up 15.5%, including a 530-basis-point benefit from the fuel surcharge. And cost per piece was up 12.4%, including a 570-basis-point impact from higher fuel costs. In the second quarter, international delivered operating profit of $1.2 billion, an increase of 41.3% and operating margin expanded to 24.7%. Our strategy in the international segment is absolutely driving value share and growth from the best parts of the market. As Scott Price shared in June, we are under penetrated in almost all geographies around the world. So we see tremendous potential, as we continue executing our wildly important initiatives internationally. Now looking at supply chain solutions. Revenue increased 14.3% to $4.2 billion, and the segment generated record profit and operating margin. Market demand was elevated and revenue growth in our major business categories more than offset the revenue impact from the sale of UPS Freight, which closed on April 30. Looking at operating profit. In forwarding, our Ocean Freight product more than doubled its operating profit on a year-over-year basis, driven by strong inventory replenishment demand. And in healthcare, our clinical trials, along with cell and gene solutions, again delivered record top and bottom-line results. In the second quarter, supply chain solutions generated operating profit of $408 million, and the operating margin was 9.7%. We are extremely pleased with our performance in this segment. We have moved the needle on operating margin, where over the past five years, operating margin has averaged 6.6%. Walking through the rest of the income statement, we had $167 million of interest expense. Other pension income was $302 million. And lastly, our effective tax rate came in at 22.1%, which was lower than last year due to discrete items. Now let's turn to cash on the balance sheet. We are generating strong cash flow from our disciplined focus on capital allocation and bottom-line results. For the first six months of the year, we generated $8.5 billion in cash from operations and $6.8 billion in free cash flow. Also in the second quarter, the sale of UPS Freight triggered remeasurement of certain U.S. pension and postretirement plans, which resulted in a reduction in our net pension liability of $2.1 billion on our balance sheet, primarily due to higher discount rates. GAAP income only benefited by about $3 million because the vast majority of the gains fell within the corridor. As Carol mentioned, our financial condition has greatly improved. A strong balance sheet is a core UPS principle. And since the end of 2020, we have reduced our pension liability and outstanding debt by $10.2 billion, bringing our debt-to-EBITDA ratio to 2.1. And lastly, so far this year, UPS has distributed $1.7 billion in dividends. Moving to our outlook. I'll cover both the second half of 2021 and the full year. First, we expect market conditions to remain favorable and our initiatives to continue delivering positive results in our business. We are also paying close attention to several external factors, including the Delta variant of COVID-19, inflationary pressures, the U.S. inventory to sales ratio and consumer spending preferences. Nonetheless, we expect our revenue quality efforts to cover known expense pressures, and we are on track to meet our 2021 nonoperating savings target of $500 million. On a consolidated basis, we expect second-half 2021 revenue growth of around 5.4% year over year, which takes into account the divestiture of UPS Freight, tough comparisons from last year and our revenue quality initiatives. We expect the second-half 2021 consolidated operating margin of around 12%. In U.S. domestic, we anticipate back-half 2021 revenue growth of about 8.2%, with revenue growing faster than volume. Operating margin should be around 9.2%. Operating margin in the back half of the year is expected to be lower than what we reported in the first half, due to three factors: First is higher compensation expense from our contractual labor increase, which goes into effect each year in August. Second, we have made targeted hourly rate adjustments in certain geographies to remain competitive in the market. And as usual, lower-margin enterprise and B2C volume will represent a larger percentage of our total volume, due to peak. Pulling it all together, we now expect full-year 2021 U.S. operating margin to be approximately 10.1%. In the international segment, for the second half of 2021, we anticipate year-over-year average daily volume growth from Europe to be in the mid-single digits. In addition, we expect Asia outbound volume to remain elevated relative to pre-pandemic levels. As a result, we expect revenue growth around 10.7%, with an operating margin of about 22.9%. In the supply chain solutions segment, in the second half of this year, we expect freight forwarding and healthcare to continue to lead the segment. We anticipate total revenue in the segment will decline around 9.6%, due to the sale of UPS Freight. However, we expect operating profit growth of around 8.1% and an operating margin of about 9.1%. Moving to the full year. In 2021, we expect consolidated operating margin of approximately 12.7% and return on invested capital of approximately 28%. We expect capital expenditures to be about $4 billion. And in April, we repaid $1 billion in debt and have achieved our 2021 target of $2.55 billion in debt repayment. We have no plans to repurchase shares in 2021 at this time. But given the strong free cash flow and further reductions to our pension liabilities, we continue to evaluate the option to repurchase shares later this year. And lastly, our effective tax rate for the remainder of the year is now expected to be around 23%. Looking out to 2023, the current economic outlook, coupled with the early results from our revenue quality and productivity initiatives, is putting us well on our way to achieving the high end of our 2023 targets. In closing, we are laser-focused on executing our strategy under the better, not bigger framework, and leaning into the best market opportunities to improve the financial performance of the company, provide the best customer experience and benefit our shareowners. Thank you, and operator, please open the lines. 