
OperatorHello, and welcome to Exelon's Second Quarter Earnings Call. My name is Danny, and I will be your event specialist today. [Operator Instructions] Please note that today's webcast is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]It is now my pleasure to turn today's program over to Dan Eggers, Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance. The floor is yours.Daniel L. Eggers -- Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance

 



Thank you, Danny. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our second quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Leading the call today are Chris Crane, Exelon's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Joe Nigro, Exelon's Chief Financial Officer. They're joined by other members of Exelon's senior management team, who will be available to answer your questions following our prepared remarks.We issued our earnings release this morning along with the presentation, all of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of Exelon's website. The earnings release and other matters which we discuss during today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ from our forward-looking statements based on factors and assumptions discussed in today's material and comments made during this call.Please refer to today's 8-K and Exelon's other SEC filings for discussions of risk factors and other factors, including uncertainties surrounding the planned separation that may cause results to differ from management's projections, forecasts and expectations. Today's presentation also includes references to adjusted operating earnings and other non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the information contained in the appendix of our presentation and our earnings release for reconciliations between the non-GAAP measures and the nearest equivalent GAAP measures.I'll now turn the call over to Chris Crane, Exelon's CEO.

 



Chris M. Crane -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Dan, and good morning, everybody, and thanks for joining us this morning. We had a good quarter financially and operationally. We made progress on our regulatory and policy objectives as we had stated our desires last quarter. We earned $0.41 per share on a GAAP basis and $0.89 per share on a non-GAAP basis, and Joe will go through those details when we get to his part of the presentation. As you know, we've been working with our regulators and our policymakers across our six jurisdictions on regulatory mechanisms that would allow us to prudently invest in critical infrastructure to the benefit of our consumers while earning an appropriate return on that used capital.As part of those efforts, the D.C., Maryland PSCs, approved multiyear plans for Pepco. The New Jersey BPU approved ACE's electric rate settlement, and we received an order in the PECO gas rate case. It's the first in 10 years. PJM held a first capacity auction in three years. Results were disappointing, but were slightly better than we had anticipated or expected. Commerce and the administration continue to work on the infrastructure package, and there is momentum building to preserve the existing nuclear fleet to meet the country's energy and climate goals. The president's budget includes support for existing nuclear plants, and Senator Cardin and Representative Pascrell introduced legislation to provide $15 per megawatt hour production tax credit to existing nuclear power plants.This legislation would help ensure that the existing nuclear fleet, which provides more than 50% of the nation's carbon-free power remains in operations and available to meet the country's energy needs while preserving and achieving climate goals. This progress is encouraging. If the PTC is included in the legislation that passes later this year, it will make an enormous difference for climate and for our nuclear plants. Unfortunately, though, that will be too late for the buyer interest in nuclear facilities, which brings me to Illinois. After many months of very tough negotiations, we were able to reach agreement with the governor and his administration that would provide support to the buyer interest in Braidwood facilities, allowing them continued operation and LaSalle would also be preserved.

 



Unfortunately, the state leaders and other stakeholders are at an impasse at this point on provisions related to the nuclear regulation -- or excuse me, the nuclear issues in the legislation. There's been no progress toward enacting the legislation since the session ended and the retirement dates for the plants are now only weeks away. We don't want to close these plants, but we cannot make decisions based on hope of legislation being passed in the future. We've been doing that since 2016, while significant losses have been incurred. We must act on the economic facts as they exist today, where no legislation has been passed by the general assembly or signed into law by the governor.Absent legislation, closing the plants is the right economic decision, but not an easy one. The talent, the dedicated employees that work at these plants, our colleagues and our friends that these -- their jobs support their families and their communities. Premature retirement of these plants is also a loss for the citizens of Illinois. The four plants at Byron, Dresden, Braidwood and LaSalle, which are eight reactors, provide 28,000 direct and indirect jobs, $3.5 billion annually to the Illinois economy. $150 million in Illinois taxes that support the schools, public safety and other critical services in the communities that they reside in. 2/3 of Illinois carbon-free electricity is greatly at risk with these shutdowns.Once Byron and Dresden retire, it will take many years under the proposed legislation to add enough renewable energy -- intermittent renewable energy to get back to where Illinois is in terms of clean energy production. In the meantime, more than 100 million metric tons of additional carbon will be admitted over the next decade as a result. I remain hopeful that the outstanding differences can be resolved and the bill will be passed very soon that would allow the clients to continue to deliver the carbon-free power to the grid, but time is really running out on that becoming achievable. Moving to operations on Slide six. Reliability performance remained strong despite the frequent storms and the heat across our service territories.All utilities achieved first quartile operating performance in outage duration and frequency, as you can see by the charts. ComEd delivered top decile performance in outage duration and frequency while BGE and PHI were top decile for outage duration. Customer operation metrics remain strong across the utilities. BGE, ComEd and PECO achieved top decile performance in the customer satisfaction indices. On the Generation front, our generation fleet performed well during the quarter. Our nuclear plants provided 36.6 terawatt hours of zero carbon generation to the grid, avoiding approximately 20 million metric tons of carbon dioxide. The fleet had a capacity factor of 93.7% for the quarter.Our fossil and renewable fleet operated above plan with power dispatch match at 99.5% and wind and solar energy capture at 96%. Our Texas plants are running as expected, helping to meet the summer loads. Turning to the separation on Slide seven. We're making progress against our execution plan and remain on track for a first quarter close. The team is working on the organizational and cost structures of each company that will set each business up for long-term success. On the regulatory front, we received comments in each of the dockets for approval and the process is moving forward as expected. We remain on track to get the necessary approvals.We will continue to update you on the work as it progresses. Turning to Slide eight. We all are very excited at Exelon to announce that Exelon Utilities have set a goal to reduce their operations-driven emission by 50% by 2030 and reaching net zero by 2050. Since our founding, Exelon has been dedicated to being part of the solution for climate crisis and a leader in providing clean energy to the grid. We were one of the first companies in our industry to commit to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, even though our emissions were already 10 times lower than our peers. We have met or exceeded our previous -- three previous goals, and Exelon Utilities' new goal builds upon our long-standing commitment to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions.We'll meet these goals through continued modernization of our gas systems, electrifying our light-duty fleet and exploring electricity and other zero carbon alternatives for medium- and heavy-duty fleet. A focus on energy efficiency and clean electricity for our operations is clearly part of the plan. Investing in equipment and processes to reduce our SF6 insulating gas from our large breakers from our system, exploring and piloting low-carbon fuels in new grid technologies and advocating for affordable grid decarbonization. In addition, we remain focused on how we can help our customers and communities decarbonize in an equitable way.The utilities will continue to invest in the EV infrastructure across our service territories and join the Electric Highway Coalition, which will create a seamless network of charging stations on highway systems covering most of the country. We will invest in robust energy efficiency programs at each of our utilities. This is a continuing endeavor which will enable customers to have lower emissions profile, use less energy and save money. In 2020 alone, these programs avoided 8.1 million metric tons of carbon emissions. Advocates for policy that will put our state -- we will continue to advocating for policies that will put our states and our communities on a path to a clean energy future while ensuring equitable transitions that benefit everyone in our communities.Before I turn it over to Joe on Slide nine, I want to highlight the work we are doing to help transform our communities through our workforce development programs, which you can see on -- narrated on the slide. Diversity, equality and inclusion is a core value at Exelon, and we are growing a diverse and inclusive, high-performing workforce. We operate in some of the most diversed cities in the country, and we have a responsibility to help address the inequities in our communities. We have more than 100 workforce development programs, spanning from middle schools, high schools and throughout colleges as well as programs for work-ready underemployed adults.These programs have already reached more than 22,000 participants. We recently launched the STEM Leadership Academy scholarships that are open to graduates of the program, ensures that the graduates are debt-free and guaranteed internships with Exelon throughout their college half. I recently awarded scholarships to seven young women and see their faces on how life-changing this was for them and their families. It was quite emotional not only for the young women, but for myself and the rest of the leadership here at Exelon. We are committed to supporting our communities by investing in education, job training programs and giving the underserved populations opportunities to grow and succeed.I'll turn it over to Joe now to take our financial update.Joseph Nigro -- Senior Executive Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Chris, and good morning, everyone. Today, I will cover our second quarter results, our quarterly financial updates and our hedge disclosures. First, turning to Slide 10. We earned $0.89 per share on a non-GAAP basis for the quarter. This favorability was driven by O&M and tax timing as well as some realized and unrealized gains we have forecasted for later this year. Exelon Utilities delivered a combined $0.49 per share net of holding company expenses. This was primarily driven by strong operational performance and the impacts of distribution rate cases. ExGen earned $0.40 per share in the second quarter, and we've begun to make progress on levers we identified to mitigate the Texas laws, but as we've said before, we expect it will take a full year to realize all the savings.Additionally, unrealized and realized gains from the Constellation Technology Ventures portfolio, and realized gains from our nuclear decommissioning trust funds contributed to the favorable course. At Holdco, we benefited from expected income tax favorability in the second quarter. As a reminder, Holdco incurred $0.12 per share drag in the first quarter associated with how consolidated full year tax expenses are booked due to the impact of losses incurred at ExGen in Texas during Q1. The remainder of the first quarter hit will reverse over the course of the year and not impact our full year results.There's still a lot of work to be done this year, but we are confident we will deliver earnings within our guidance range of $2.60 to $3 per share, and you can see the details on Slide 17 in the appendix. On Slide 11, we show our quarter-over-quarter earnings walk. The $0.89 per share in the second quarter of this year was $0.34 per share higher than the second quarter of 2020. Exelon Utilities less Holdco earnings were up $0.20 per share compared with last year. The increase was driven primarily by the absence of storm's costs from last year's record-setting storm season at PECO and new rates associated with our completed rate cases and the impact of higher treasury rate on ComEd's distribution ROE.The partial reversal of first quarter tax expense at corporate also drove favorability relative to last year's results. ExGen's earnings were up $0.14 per share compared with last year. And the increase was due to unrealized and realized gains on our Constellation Technology Venture investments, realized gains in our nuclear decommissioning trust funds, fewer planned nuclear outage days and higher ZEC revenue from increased volumes in ZEC pricing in New York. As a reminder, the Constellation Technology Venture investment will be mark-to-market every quarter. And since the quarter end, we have seen some decline in prices. Moving on to Slide 12.Looking at our utility returns on a consolidated basis, our trailing 12-month ROE as of the second quarter has improved to 9.4% and is back within our 9% to 10% targeted range. A 50 basis point increase from last quarter was primarily due to higher second quarter earnings across the utilities and the roll-off of the storms that I mentioned that occurred last year. Looking forward, we remain focused on delivering stronger returns in the utilities and supporting our growth targets. Now turning to Slide 13. As Chris mentioned briefly in his remarks, there were some important developments on the regulatory front.Notably, we received orders in two multiyear plans at Pepco for D.C. and Maryland. Multiyear plans provide our customers with great predictability and reduce the administrative costs caused by frequent filing with traditional rate case to recover our costs. We are pleased that we have now received orders in our first three multiyear rate plans, which will provide timely and predictable recovery for capital investments for the benefit of all our customers. And now moving on to the details of the recent rate case developments.First, on June eight. The DC Public Service Commission approved Pepco's multiyear plan for the 18 months, spanning the remainder of '21 through 2022 with an allowed ROE of 9.275%, a revenue increase of $108.6 million along with the acceleration of tax benefits to partially mitigate rate impacts for customers through 2022 is approved. Additionally, the order allows for two-way reconciliation, including the ability to request recovery of costs that exceed the forecasted cost at the end of deployment. The commission also approved tracking performance incentive mechanisms that are focused on the district's climate and clean energy goals, including GHG emission reduction, energy savings, peak demand reduction and distributed energy resources deployed.Second, on the 28th of June, the Maryland Public Service Commission approved Pepco's three-year multiyear plan for April one, 2021 through March 31, 2024. The order approved a cumulative revenue requirement of $52 million over the period as well as a 9.55% ROE. Acceleration of tax benefits to offset customer increases were improved for the first year with years two and three to be determined later. COVID-19 in electric vehicle regulatory assets were also approved for recovery.Third, on the 22nd of June, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission issued an order approving increase in PECO's annual natural gas distribution revenues of $29 million, reflecting an ROE of 10.24%.And fourth, on July 14, the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities unanimously approved ACE's settlement in both the electric distribution rate case as well as our AMI meter and network deployment and cost recovery. The rate case settlement was for $41 million revenue increase and a 9.6% ROE. There will be no rate impact to customers until January one, 2022, due to improved offsets from acceleration of tax benefits. We are excited about the AMI decision that will allow us to bring the benefits of this technology to our customers in South Jersey. We've also had several rate cases still in progress, including Delmarva, Delaware's electric case where we expected provision in the third quarter, the PECO electric case in the fourth quarter and ComEd's annual formula rate filing in December.And overall, we're very pleased with the progress in advancing progressive regulatory designs that benefit our customers while easing regulatory burden and improving visibility for our utilities. As a reminder, we expect nearly 100% of our rate base growth will be covered by alternative mechanisms by the end of our planning period, a differentiator for our utilities when compared to our peers. And more details on the rate cases can be found on Slides 21 through 28 of the appendix.And before discussing our gross margin update on Slide 14, I want to remind you that we will not be providing any ExGen disclosures beyond 2021 at this time. And given the separation, we expect to provide the 2022 hedge disclosures closer to completion when we're able to give a full financial picture for new spun-off company. Turning to the table on gross margin. There is no change to the 2021 gross margin since last quarter. In 2021, open gross margin is up $750 million relative to the first quarter primarily due to the impact of higher prices across all regions and the execution of $50 million power new business in 2021.Our mark-to-market hedges were down $600 million due to our highly hedged position, partially offset by the execution of power new business. We executed $150 million of power new business in the quarter and $50 million of non-power business in the quarter. I'll stop there.Thank you, and I'll now turn the call back to Chris for his closing remarks.Chris M. Crane -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Joe. Appreciate it. Turning to Slide 15, I'll close on our priorities and commitments. We will meet or exceed our financial commitments, delivering earnings within our guidance range and maintaining a strong balance sheet. We will complete preparations to separate the business, including obtaining the regulatory approvals. At Exelon Utilities, we will prudently and effectively deploy nearly $6.6 billion of capital to the benefit of our customers and to help meet our state's energy policy goals, and we will work with our regulators to ensure timely recovery of these investments.We will continue to advocate for clean energy and climate policies with the new administration commerce in our states to put the country on the path to meeting the carbon reduction goals that all desire. And we'll continue to partner and support our customers in the communities that we serve. Thank you, and I'll now open it up for questions. Before I do that, though, I have one error in my prepared reading. I said we're at impasse on the nuclear issues on the bill. And that's not where the impasse is. We've resolved the nuclear issues. We're working with all the constituents on other elements. So just want to make sure that my blunder there didn't go too far down the path of what the hell is going on.But with that, I'll open it up for questions.