  OperatorHello, and welcome to the Catalent, Inc. third-quarter fiscal year 2022 earnings conference call. My name is Katie, and I'll be coordinating your call today. [Operator instructions] I'll now hand over to your host, Paul Surdez, vice president, investor relations, to begin. Paul, please go ahead.Paul Surdez -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to review Catalent's third-quarter fiscal 2020 financial results. Joining me on the call today are John Chiminski, chair and chief executive officer; Alessandro Maselli, president and chief operating officer; and Tom Castellano, senior vice president and chief financial officer. Please see our agenda for today's call on Slide 2 of our supplemental presentation, which is available on our Investor Relations website at investor.catalent.com. During our call today, management will make forward-looking statements and refer to non-GAAP financial measures. It is possible that actual results could differ from management's expectations. We refer you to Slide 3 for more detail on forward-looking statements. Slides 4 and 5 discuss Catalent's use of non-GAAP financial measures and our just issued earnings release provides reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. Please also refer to Catalent Form 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC today for additional information on the risks and uncertainties that may bear on our operating results, performance, and financial condition, including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic.Now I'd like to turn the call over to John Chiminski, whose opening remarks will begin on Slide 6 of the presentation. John Chiminski -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Paul, and welcome, everyone, to the call. I'm pleased to report that the positive momentum we built in the first half of our fiscal year continued in the third quarter. Our financial results were driven by strong continued growth in our biologics segment with additional support from our other service offerings, including our consumer-preferred gummy dosage forms for nutritional supplements, which act as an additional growth engine for the company. Our strong performance in the third quarter, coupled with continued momentum, has enabled us to increase our fiscal 2022 guidance for the third time this fiscal year, which Tom will review later in the call. Regarding financial performance, our revenue for the third quarter was $1.27 billion, increasing 21% as reported or 23% in constant currency compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2021. When excluding acquisitions and divestitures, organic growth was 20% measured in constant currency. Our adjusted EBITDA of $339 million for the third quarter increased 24% as reported or 26% on a constant currency basis compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2021. When excluding acquisitions and divestitures, organic growth was 26% measured in constant currency. Our adjusted net income for the third quarter was $188 million, or $1.04 per diluted share, up from $0.82 per diluted share in the corresponding prior-year period. Our biologics segment was again the top contributor to Catalent's financial performance as it experienced organic net revenue growth of 30%, driving an EBITDA increase of $41 million over the third quarter of last year. These strong results came from across our broad base of service offerings within our biologics segment and were driven in part by COVID vaccine demand. Demand remains strong in this segment, including a notable increase from several of our large gene therapy customers for viral vector manufacturing. Given the high utilization of our Biologics assets as well as projections for continued demand in the years ahead, we continue to take both organic and inorganic actions to increase our footprint in drug product, drug substance, and cell and gene therapy. Alessandro will walk through our latest developments in a few minutes. In our softgel and oral technologies segment, our complex oral solids offerings continued to recover from the pandemic-related headwinds as we'd anticipated, and results from this segment were again further enhanced by the acquisition of Bettera. Organic growth was very strong at 14% as year-over-year demand for both prescription and consumer health products recovered nicely over the same period last fiscal year.

 



 Inorganically, we received another boost from the recently acquired Bettera business, which adds more than 20 percentage points of net revenue growth to this segment. The acquisition is performing even better than we initially expected and we're investing in additional capacity to meet the high demand for gummy formats from our consumer health customers. Our oral and specialty delivery segment reported 4% organic net revenue growth driven by early phase development offerings. With the divestiture of our blow-fill-seal visits in March of 2021 now annualized, it will no longer negatively impact reported growth beginning in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year. Future growth in this segment will be aided by recently completed expansions of our nasal capabilities in RTP and oral solid dose GMP manufacturing suites in Kansas City, as well as strong growth from commercial products in our Zydis fast-dissolve dosage format. Viewed holistically, Catalent remains well-positioned to continue delivering strong financial performance and growth, and we remain committed to providing patients around the world with life-saving and enhancing treatments. I'll now turn the call over to Alessandro, who will review various operational highlights from the quarter including recent acquisitions and capital expenditure projects.Alessandro Maselli -- President and Chief Operating Officer Thank you, John. We continue to expand our global network, invest in growth-driving capabilities, attract new talent and accelerate our progress in operational excellence. This will all be critical drivers for Catalent to deliver our long-term targets I outlined the last quarter, including the fiscal '26 targets of more than $7.5 billion in revenues and adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 30%. With that said, I want to address the questions we have received regarding the degree of covenant reliance on continuing COVID vaccine revenue to deliver these numbers. While our current strategic plan, which I outlined in the last quarter, does include in fiscal '26 and some projected revenue from vaccine, our model assumes that it will likely be only a fraction of the revenue generated today from COVID vaccines. The strong industry backdrop and forecasted demand across multiple therapeutic categories and modalities confirm that we are not reliant on substantial revenue from COVID vaccine to achieve our targets. We also continue to be comfortable with our overall long-term organic revenue growth of 8% to 10%. Looking to fiscal '23, we see growth in line with that range, driven by increased utilization of recent investments across the company, including a new growth investment I will review in a moment; organic growth through current assets, including the notable uptick in commercial demand in SOT; and a shift of some of our fungible biologics assets that currently producing COVID vaccines to other customer projects, including the newly signed large commercial tech transfer programs. In formulating these fiscal '23 outlook, we also mitigated the future risk by assuming a considerable decline in COVID-19 product revenue in fiscal '23. So to be clear, our growth drivers are expected to be more than -- are expected to more than compensate for considerable decline in our COVID vaccine revenue, leading to top-line growth in our -- in line with our long-term growth rate of 8% to 10%. While the company is succeeding in meeting demand over the course of the pandemic, we concurrently made the strategic investment and allocated capital to other areas of the business that position our overall portfolio for long-term success. In addition, our robust global network of facility enables us to shift production based on demand and reliably supply our customers with the wide range of products they need. Core to our CDMO business model, our service offerings across the company are generally designed to be flexible and fungible so that they might serve multiple customers, products, therapeutic categories, and in some cases modalities, providing us with a balanced platform for growth. Let me review some of the latest growth actions. On the acquisition front, we recently announced a $44.5 million purchase of a state-of-the-art commercial scale cell therapy manufacturing facility in Kingston, New Jersey that we're closing -- we'll work in close collaboration with our existing cell therapy sites, particularly our cell therapy and plus with the center of excellence in Gosselies, Belgium. We purchased the Princeton facility from Erytech Pharma and will manufacture at the site and exclusively supply its lead product candidate for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The 31,000 square foot size houses 16 suites designed for GMP production, as well as labs for analytical development, quality control and microbial testing. We are also in the process of leasing two other buildings nearby to enable future expansion. Similar to the cell therapy campus we built through acquisition in Gosselies, we envision Princeton becoming a strategic campus for cell therapy development, clinical and commercial-scale cell therapy manufacturing in North America. We also continue to invest in our gene therapy assets and [Inaudible] near BWI Airport, we are on track to open eight additional suites by the end of this calendar year, bringing the total to 18 GMP manufacturing suites. Each of these suites is designed to accommodate multiple bioreactors suitable for commercial-scale manufacturing from cell bank to purify the drug substance across different modalities. On the biotherapeutics side, we acquired the largely complete biologic development and manufacturing facility in the biomedical science hub near Oxford U.K. We plan to invest up to $160 million to complete the facility and extend its drug substance capabilities for development and manufacture of biologic therapies and vaccines, including mRNA proteins and other advanced modalities. It is expected that the new facility will employ at least an additional 350 people and support public and private organizations seeking to develop and manufacture biotherapeutics and vaccines. As we are able to get this site up running on an accelerated time line compared to the previously announced organic yield of drug substance capabilities in Anagni, we will reassess the best use of data allocated space in Anagni and focus our efforts and capital on bringing our first drug substance offering to Europe through our new Oxford side. In the European drug product space, I was happy to be with our team, along with national and local dignitaries in Limoges, France in March for the ribbon-cutting ceremony that recognize the completion of the multimillion-dollar project that transformed the Limoges site into a European center of excellence for biopharmaceutical development, drug product fill and finish services and packaging. The site focuses on early phase integrated clinical development, including the small scale less commercial manufacturing, allowing for seamless technology transfer of projects within the covered network as they progress to late-stage and larger-scale commercial supply phases. Also in Europe, our drug product facility in Brussels continues to make substantial progress, which has allowed us to begin the start of manufacturing operations at the site while we continue in parallel to enhance our overall site operations. In the U.S., our Board recently approved a multiyear investment in Bloomington totaling $350 million to expand the biologic drug substance and drug product manufacturing capabilities, including quality control laboratories and complex automated packaging lines. The project will serve the site's robust biologics pipeline as well as the manufacturing capacity for commercially approved products in high demand. The drug substance part of the expansion, which is expected to be completed before the end of this calendar year, is designed with the best strategy enable the site to serve more commercial products. The expansion of the drug product fill and finish capacity, which is expected to be completed in 2024, includes the build-out of new syringe filling lines as well as new lypolizing capacity. These investments will enable us to expand our flagship Bloomington campus and extend our leadership as one of the largest and more comprehensive global center for integrated manufacturing capabilities in North America. With that, I will now turn the call back over to John, who will discuss how Catalent incorporates sustainability focus as part of our long-term core business operations and planning.John Chiminski -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Alessandro. As detailed in Slide 8, in March, we released our third annual corporate responsibility report covering our progress in environmental, social and governance matters during fiscal 2021. At a high level, we've made significant progress in key ESG areas over the past year, such as carbon emissions, diversity and inclusion and community investment, and continue to shape our sustainability focus in alignment with our core business strategy. Beginning with people, fiscal 2021 was a record-breaking hiring year for Catalent as we onboarded more than 4,000 colleagues while keeping their safety and well-being at the forefront of our efforts. In addition, we expanded employee resource groups and diversity among our leadership. Our employee resource group network now comprises more than 45 chapters across 8 global communities and continues to grow, thrive, and positively impact our inclusive culture. On the environmental front, we met our goal to reduce our indirect carbon emissions by 15%. This success was primarily the result of our transition to renewable electricity resources as well as continuous improvements through on-site engineering, equipment, and facilities management. We've also set new science-based targets to reduce scope 1, that is direct; and scope two, indirect emissions by 42% by 2030 and committed to no residual active pharmaceutical ingredient in our wastewater above the predicted no effect concentration, thus taking a leadership position in the industry from a sustainability perspective. The fiscal 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report also includes our first-ever Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosure, or TCFD reporting underscoring our progress and commitment to best-in-class sustainability practices. Third is our focus on communities. Fiscal 2021 was a milestone year for philanthropic giving at Catalent as we distributed more than $1.2 million to support COVID-19 relief efforts, stem education, and organizations that support patients in underserved communities. In addition, since the Russian invasion of Ukraine earlier this year, Catalent and our employees have donated to over 45 nongovernmental organizations supporting humanitarian and refugee support efforts in Ukraine and Eastern Europe. As I prepare to transition to my new role as executive chair, I can't help but reflect on and be proud of the substantial progress we've made in corporate responsibility, particularly in the last five years. This evolution was achieved by staying true to our values and at the same time advancing and delivering real-life solutions for people in the environment. While we're delighted by the progress we've made, we know our work in this area is far from done and we will continue to enhance our efforts that have put us at the forefront of corporate responsibility in the CDMO industry. Before turning the call over to Tom, I'd like to make a few comments on the overall health of our business before Alessandro begins as CEO on July 1. Given our growth history and trajectory, increased profitability, and proven success with strategic execution, including the transformation of the company over the last few years as we've grown our biologics segment and further diversified our portfolio, I'm proud of where Catalent stands today and the people who got us here. Catalent's offerings are not only balanced, they also closely match the industry's R&D pipeline. We have never been in a stronger position in the dynamic growth markets we serve. Now it may already be understood, but I nonetheless like to make clear that this will be my last earnings call as I transition to the position of executive chair of the board. I certainly appreciate the many interactions I've had with you over the years. But importantly, I am not going away and will continue to discharge important responsibilities in my new role. I look forward to continuing my work in close partnership with the Board, Alessandro, and the rest of our talented team, while contributing to the ongoing success of Catalent. To reiterate from prior comments, there is no better person suited to take this company forward than my long-term colleague and friend, Alessandro, and he has my full confidence. I'd now like to turn the call over to Tom, who will review our financial results for the third quarter and our updated fiscal 2022 guidance.Tom Castellano -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, John. I'll begin this morning with a discussion on segment performance, where commentary around segment growth will be in constant currency. I will start on Slide 9 with the biologics segment. To highlight the company's transformation over the last two years, you will see that the segment represented 55% of our net revenue growth -- net revenue in Q3 of this fiscal year, compared to 52% in Q3 of fiscal 2021 and 33% in Q3 of 2020. Biologics net revenue in Q3 of $698 million increased 30% compared to the third quarter of 2021. This robust net revenue growth was driven organically by broad-based demand across the segment, most notably for COVID-19-related programs, which were only ramping up in the third quarter of last year. The segment's EBITDA margin of 31.1% was up 20 basis points sequentially over the second quarter of this fiscal year but down year over year from 33.1% recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2021. The year-on-year decline is primarily driven by costs arising from the remediation efforts at our Brussels sites. In addition, component sourcing revenue, which represents more than 25% of total COVID vaccine revenue, was higher this quarter compared to the prior-year quarter. As we discussed in the past, component sourcing is where we source materials, components and other supplies for our customers and these activities come with two opposing dynamics: increased revenue but margins well below the segment average. Looking to the next couple of quarters, we expect the biologics segment revenue growth rate to gravitate toward its normalized growth rate of 10% to 15%. Please turn to Slide 10, which represents results from our softgel and oral technologies segment. Softgel and oral technologies net revenue of $324 million increased 37% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2021, with segment EBITDA increasing 29% over the same period last fiscal year. The October 1 acquisition of Bettera contributed 23 percentage points to SOT's net revenue growth and 13 percentage points to segment EBITDA growth during the quarter. Inorganic EBITDA was adversely affected in the current quarter by a onetime accounting adjustment for inventory valuation as of the time of the acquisition. Excluding this onetime charge, operational performance of the Bettera entities continues to meet our expectations and remain a key driver for margin expansion for the SOT segment and the company overall. The organic net revenue increase was driven by growth in both prescription products and consumer health products, particularly in cold, cough, and over-the-counter pain relief products. Slide 11 shows the results of the oral and specialty delivery segment. After factoring out the net impact from the divestiture of our blow-fill-seal business and the acquisition of Acorda's spray drying assets, both of which annualized in the third quarter of this fiscal year, net revenue grew 4% and segment EBITDA was up 64% over the third quarter of last year. The top-line growth was primarily driven by elevated demand for early phase development programs. EBITDA margin improvement was driven by favorable revenue mix as well as a favorable comparison to our third quarter of fiscal 2021 when we book charges related to a customer's September 2020 voluntarily recall of a respiratory product. As shown on Slide 12, our clinical supply services segment posted net revenue of $101 million, representing 3% growth over the third quarter of fiscal 2021, driven by growth in our manufacturing and packaging service offerings in North America. Segment EBITDA grew 14% with favorable product mix driving the performance. As of March 31, 2022, backlog for the segment was $529 million, unchanged from $529 million at the end of last quarter and up 8% from March 31, 2021. The segment recorded net new business wins of $111 million during the third quarter, compared to $137 million in the third quarter of the prior year. The segment's trailing 12-month book-to-bill ratio is 1.1 times. Moving to our consolidated adjusted EBITDA on Slide 13. Our third-quarter adjusted EBITDA increased 24% to $339 million or 26.6% of net revenue, compared to 26% of net revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2021. On a constant currency basis, our third-quarter adjusted EBITDA increased 26%, all of which is organic compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2021. As shown on Slide 14, third-quarter adjusted net income was $188 million or $1.04 per diluted share, compared to adjusted net income of $148 million or $0.82 per diluted share in the third quarter a year ago. Slide 15 shows our debt-related ratios and our capital allocation priorities. Catalent's net leverage ratio as of March 31, 2022, was 2.6 times, below our long-term target of 3.0 times. This compares to net leverage of 2.8 times on December 31, 2021, and a reported net leverage ratio of 2.3 times on March 31, 2021. Our combined balance of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of March 31, 2022, was $880 million, compared to $915 million as of December 31, 2021. Moving on to capital expenditures. We now expect capex to be approximately 13% to 14% of our fiscal 2022 net revenue compared to our previous expectation of 15% to 16%. The key factor for this change include our higher-than-previously expected net revenue, combined with some supply chain-related delays and longer lead times for some of our capital projects. To be clear, new capex associated with our recent acquisitions, most notably for our new Biologics facility in the U.K., is already contemplated in our new guidance. Of course, our elevated capex is temporarily impacting free cash flow, but we expect capex to return to a more normal 8% to 10% range in the next few years. Note that our free cash flow has also been negatively impacted the last two years by our strategic decision at the onset of the pandemic to increase inventory levels, which continue to allow us to have the inputs we need to meet our supply obligations to our patients and customers in a timely manner. When we feel the time is appropriate and are more comfortable with the stabilization of our supply chain, we will begin to reverse course, which will have a future positive effect on free cash flow. Now we turn to our financial outlook for fiscal '22 as outlined on Slide 16. Following the strong third quarter and a solid outlook for the remainder of the fiscal year, we are raising both the low and high end of our financial guidance ranges. We are also tightening the range since there is just one quarter remaining in the fiscal year. We now expect full fiscal year net revenue in the range of $4.8 billion to $4.9 billion, representing growth of 20% to 23%, versus our previous estimate $4.74 billion to $4.86 billion. We project that net revenue growth from M&A will continue to be two to three percentage points, principally driven by the acquisition of the Bettera. For full-year adjusted EBITDA, we expect a range of $1.265 billion to $1.305 billion, representing growth of 24% to 28% over fiscal 2021, compared to our previous estimate of $1.25 billion to $1.30 billion. Note that the continued strengthening of the U.S. dollar against both the euro and British pound is expected to negatively impact our adjusted EBITDA by an additional $3 million in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year, the effect of which has once again been absorbed into our new financial guidance. Also absorbed in guidance is approximately $8 million of expected costs in the fourth quarter with little or no associated revenue for the cell therapy facility acquisition in Princeton and the Biotherapeutics facility acquisition in the U.K. We expect full-year adjusted net income of $665 million to $705 million, representing growth of 21% to 28% over the last fiscal year compared to our previous estimate of $650 million to $700 million. We continue to expect our consolidated annual effective tax rate to be 23% to 25%. Finally, I'll close by reiterating Alessandro's comments on our initial estimate at the top line for fiscal 2023, which projects growth in line with our publicly announced long-term organic, constant currency net revenue growth rate range of 8% to 10%. Among the factors we've considered in formulating this estimate are increased utilization of recent investments across the company, including those highlighted earlier this call; organic growth through current assets; a shift of some of our fungible biologics assets currently producing COVID vaccines to other customer projects, including recently signed large commercial tech transfer programs; and as a risk mitigation factor assuming a considerable decline in revenue from our COVID-19 product programs. Operator, this concludes our prepared remarks, and we would now like to open the call for questions. 