  OperatorGreetings, and welcome to the Q1 2022 IDEX Corporation earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the conference over to your host, Allison Lausas, vice president and chief accounting officer. You may begin.Allison Lausas -- Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Good morning, everyone. This is Allison Lausas, vice president and chief accounting officer for IDEX Corporation. Thank you for joining us for the discussion of IDEX first quarter 2022 financial highlights. Last night, we issued a press release outlining our company's financial and operating performance for the three months ending March 31, 2022.

 



 The press release, along with the presentation slides to be used during today's webcast, can be accessed on our company website at idexcorp.com. Joining me today are Eric Ashleman, our chief executive officer and president; and Bill Grogan, our chief financial officer. The format for our call today is as follows: we will begin with Eric providing an overview of the state of IDEX's business; then Bill will discuss IDEX first-quarter financial results. He'll also give an update on segment performance and the markets they serve and provide our outlook for the second quarter and full year 2022.Following our prepared remarks, we will open the call for your questions. If you should need to exit the call for any reason, you may access a complete replay, beginning approximately two hours after the call concludes, by dialing the toll-free number 877-660-6853 and entering conference ID 13724803 or simply log on to our company homepage for the webcast replay. And before we begin, a brief reminder, this call may contain certain forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbor language in last night's press release and in IDEX's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. With that, I'll now turn this call over to our CEO and president, Eric Ashleman. Eric Ashleman -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Allison, and good morning, everyone. I'm on Slide 6. The first quarter was an outstanding start to the year for IDEX. I'd like to thank our IDEX employees around the globe for their hard work and contributions to our success.

 



 We saw strong broad-based demand for our differentiated technologies with growth across all three of our segments leading to record orders, sales and backlog. This robust market plus outstanding operating performance resulted in 12% organic sales growth and excellent margins. We achieved adjusted EPS of $1.96, setting another IDEX record. Overall, the operating environment in the first quarter was much like the fourth quarter of 2021, but our team's improved their ability to navigate through this challenging environment. We effectively mapped our 80s and 20s from customers through work cells and back to the supply base in a way that increased overall throughput and velocity. We also work together to attack our most problematic supply challenges through resourcing or to redesign. Although, we expect these challenges will remain with -- for us in the near term, we are confident in our ability to adapt, execute and deliver for our customers. This period of rapid economic recovery coupled with geopolitical disruptions and constrained supply continues to drive material and freight costs higher. We kept pace with our own robust price capture efforts as we leverage the highly differentiated nature of IDEX's product portfolio and our leadership positions in critical niche markets around the world. We also saw strong benefits from our productivity initiatives, specifically benefits from our site consolidations in FMT, capital investments that drove efficiencies, and product design changes that reduce material consumption. The results in Q1 are a testament to our team's long view across business cycles as they build productivity roadmaps to support growth and margin expansion. Turning to capital deployment, M&A continues to be a key priority for us. We recently announced our intent to acquire KZValve, a leading manufacturer of electric valves and controllers. This acquisition will extend our expertise in providing OEMs with critical solutions for precision agricultural and industrial applications, and serve as a complement to our agriculture business within FMT. We're excited to welcome KZValve to IDEX. We also closed on Nexsight, a compliment to our FMT water platform.

 



 Our funnel is strong and we continue to build conviction and interest around faster-growing areas that complement the IDEX style of competition. Roopa Unnikrishnan, who joined us in March, will be an outstanding addition to these efforts, as she leads strategy and corporate development for the company. Also, in the first quarter, we deployed $28 million to repurchase approximately 148,000 shares of company stock. We employ a discipline methodology to create long-term value for shareholders, when we see a break between our intrinsic assessment of IDEX enterprise value and our public valuation. Finally, we continue to make reasonable and modest resource investments to drive long-term sustainable growth. These investments typically involve incremental additions to our commercial and engineering resources to support our best organic bets, or targeted resources to support our inorganic efforts through M&A. With that, let me turn it over to Bill to discuss our financial results.Bill Grogan -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Eric. I'll start with our consolidated financial results on Slide 8. Q1 orders of $856 million were up 20% overall and up 16% organically. We experienced favorable performance across all our segments and built $105 million of backlog. First-quarter sales of $751 million were up 15% overall and up 12% organically. We saw favorable performance within each of our segments led by strong results in HST. Q1 gross margin expanded 70 basis points and adjusted gross margins expanded 60 basis points versus last year at 45.6% driven by favorable volume leverage, operational productivity, and favorable price cost, despite rising inflation. First-quarter operating margin was 25%, up 110 basis points compared to prior year. Adjusted operating margin was also 25%, up 70 basis points compared to prior year. Excluding the impact of acquisition-related intangible amortization, adjusted operating margin expanded 130 basis points. I'll discuss the drivers about adjusted operating income on the next slide. Our Q1 effective tax rate was 22.4%, down slightly versus our prior-year rate of 22.6% due to the mix of global pre-tax income among their jurisdictions. First-quarter net income was $140 million, which resulted in EPS of $1.83. Adjusted net income was $150 million, resulting in an adjusted EPS of $1.96, up $0.34 or 21% over prior-year adjusted EPS. Finally, free cash flow for the quarter was $64 million, approximately 43% of adjusted net income. This result is driven by higher earnings being more than offset by increases in working capital due to the volume impact on receivables, as well as additional inventory we've strategically added to help mitigate some of the longer lead times we are experiencing. Moving on to Slide 9, which details the drivers of our adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income increased $29 million for the quarter compared to the prior year. Our 12% organic growth contributed approximately $25 million flowing through with our prior-year gross margin rate. We levered well on the volume increase had strong price capture, and our team's drove operational productivity to offset the profit headwinds we experienced from inflation. Additionally, we saw benefits from our FMT site consolidations, and non-repeat of prior year inventory reserves associated with COVID-19 related new product development. Mix was not a significant driver of this quarter. We reinvested $4 million mainly in the form of engineering, commercial and M&A resources to enhance our long-term growth capabilities. Lastly, discretionary spending increased by $4 million versus last year. COVID-related constraints remained in place for a portion of the first quarter, limiting our spending. As we noted in our full-year guidance, we expect discretionary to continue to ramp up as we progress through the year and restore to our normal pre-pandemic spend base, although on significantly higher sales. Our organic flow through was a solid 35% for the quarter. Flow through was then negatively impacted by the dilutive impact of acquisitions and FX, getting us to our reported flow through of 29%. With that, I'll provide a deeper look at our segment performance. I'm on Page 10. In our fluid and metering technologies segment, we experienced a strong first quarter for both orders and sales with organic growth of 14% and 11%, respectively. FMT adjusted operating margin expanded by 300 basis points versus last year, driven by strong volume leverage and operational productivity, which includes benefits from our energy and Italy site consolidation projects, non-repeat of prior inventory reserve adjustments, and some offset from resource investments. Our industrial day rates were strong. Customers do remain cautious around larger projects though, but we have seen some projects come through in the oil and gas, and petrochemical markets. Agriculture continues to perform well to the strong global crop demand and higher prices. Our municipal water business is stable, though, project activity is increasing. States are actively submitting applications for infrastructure bill funding, and there is general optimism for funding availability in the second half of the year. We see potential for larger spending in the long-term, and we are well-positioned to capture this demand. Our energy business continues to improve. Higher oil and home-heating fuel prices are providing support and funnel activity is increasing, as global energy supply volatility is expected to drive higher U.S. production. Domestic pipeline companies continue to communicate increased cutbacks, but there is some lag due to supply chain constraints in the Russia-Ukraine uncertainty. Moving on to health and science technology. We experienced excellent commercial performance with orders up organically 21% and organic sales up 16%. HST adjusted operating margin contracted by 40 basis points versus the first quarter of 2021, but expanded by 90 basis points excluding the impact of incremental amortization tied to the Airtech acquisition. This was driven by strong volume leverage, partially offset by increased discretionary spending and resource investments. HST continues to benefit from strong secular growth trends within life sciences, analytical instrumentation, semicon, and the food and pharma markets. Life sciences continues to experience strong demand due to an overall awarded focused around healthcare in areas such as point-of-care and patient diagnostics, as well as increased next-gen sequencing demand as the market for cell-based therapies expands and applications like cancer research. On the semiconductor side, we continue to see broad-based growth tied to wafer production and quality inspection. Other growth areas include optics applications and additive manufacturing, as well as broadband satellite technology. Finally, turning to our fire, safety and diversified products segment. This segment posted favorable orders and sales performance with organic growth of 12% and 5%, respectively. FSD adjusted operating margin contracted by 340 basis points versus last year. This was driven by higher employee-related cost and discretionary spending, as well as pressure on price costs due to longer-term OEM contracts on the fire side, and automotive exposure with high metal content and BAND-IT. We have taken action to address this gap and expect that price costs will improve in the second half of the year. Our dispensing business continues to experience strong results driven by North American project volume and overall positive global paint market. Our BAND-IT business performed well with industrial and energy demand more than offsetting lags in automotive driven by supply chain related customer delays. Within fire and safety, we are seeing core North American and European markets improving, but still challenge due to supply chain. North American fire OEMs continue to experience supply chain constraints flowing their order to revenue conversion cycle. With that, I would like to provide an update on our outlook for the second quarter and full year 2022. I'm on Slide 11, which lays out our updated guidance. For the second quarter of 2022, we're projecting organic revenue growth of 8% to 9% and operating margin between 23% and 23.5%. Q2 forecasted op margin is lower sequentially due to a full quarter of Nexsight, which is diluted to our operating margin by approximately 50 basis points due to intangible amortization, as well as increased resource investment and discretionary spending. We expect GAAP EPS to range from $1.69 to $1.74, and adjusted EPS to range from $1.85 to $1.90. Turning to the full year. Given our strong first-quarter performance, but potential risk and uncertainty on the back half of the year, we are raising the low-end and holding the high-end of organic growth and adjusted EPS guidance. We now expect full-year organic revenue growth of 6% to 8%, which does not imply significant sales ramp from the second half of the year rather we are applying a normal seasonal pattern to our current output level. At this time, we see potential risks that further revenue acceleration may be tempered by the Russia-Ukraine war and supply chain effects related to the China's Zero-COVID policy. We will continue to monitor the situation and reassess our guidance range in the next quarter's update. We expect GAAP EPS to range between $6.87 to $7, and adjusted EPS to range from $7.50 to $7.63. Our operating margin expectations for the full year to be approximately 24% and is diluted by Nexsight intangible amortization of about 50 basis points. With that, let me pause and turn it over to the operator for your questions. 