
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Teradyne Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Andrew Blanchard. Thank you. Please go ahead, sir.Andrew J. Blanchard -- Vice President of Corporate RelationsThank you, Patrice. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results. I'm joined this morning by our CEO, Mark Jagiela; and our CFO, Sanjay Mehta. Following our opening remarks, we'll provide details of our performance for 2021's third quarter along with our outlook for the fourth quarter. The press release containing our third quarter results was issued last evening. We're providing slides on the Investor page of the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion. Replays of this call will be available via the same page after the call ends. The matters that we discussed will include forward looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. We encourage you to review the safe harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings. Additionally, those forward looking statements are made as of today, and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call. During today's call, we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures. We've posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures where appropriate on the Investor page of the website. Looking ahead between now and our next earnings call, Teradyne expects to participate in technology or industrial focused investor conferences hosted by Baird, Credit Suisse, Davidson and UBS. Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda. First, Mark will comment on our recent results, current market conditions and thoughts on the rest of 2021 and '22. Sanjay will then offer more details on our quarterly results along with our guidance for the fourth quarter. We'll then answer your questions, and this call is scheduled for one hour. Mark?Mark E. Jagiela -- President, Chief Executive Officer & DirectorThanks, Andy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Today, I'll cover four topics: the highlights of our third quarter and the first nine months of the year, the changes we're observing in the SOC test market, our outlook for the industrial automation market and how we're thinking about the test and automation markets as we close out this year and look into 2022 and beyond. As our Q3 results demonstrate, demand remains strong across all of our businesses. At the company level, Q3 sales grew 16% from last year's record Q3 and non-GAAP EPS grew 35%. We did experience increased supply chain bottlenecks in our Industrial Automation business in the quarter and under ship demand. Sanjay will describe this in more detail, but we expect these constraints to persist into Q4. Despite this, for the first nine months of 2021, company wide sales grew 19% and non-GAAP EPS grew 31% from the year ago level. In each of our businesses, we are writing long term secular trends that we expect will drive revenue and earnings growth for years to come. In our Test businesses, the unit growth and complexity drivers that power these markets continue unabated.For example, our semiconductor test business grew 18% through Q3, while, with SOC leading the charge growing 22%. Sales continue to be dominated by our UltraFLEX product line, which is well aligned to the performance requirements of the growing compute and mobility markets. Additionally, sales of our Eagle Test systems more than doubled in the nine month period as Automotive and Industrial Test markets have also rapidly expanded. Eagle's unique architecture hits the sweet spot of these markets by balancing high precision with the stress testing needed for these demanding applications. Within SOC, there's been a clear shift this year to higher demand from the compute, automotive and industrial markets. While mobility is still the largest sub segment of SOC and growing, it has dropped from the high 50% range of the SOC test market in recent years to the high 40% range this year. Over the midterm, we expect mobility will remain the largest SOC submarket and continue to grow but we also expect compute to grow at a faster rate, while automotive should remain at its current elevated levels. For the last decade or so, mobility has made rapid annual advances in semiconductor complexity that has enabled the advancement of smartphone sophistication. The refresh pace has been much faster than traditional PCs, graphics, automotive and industrial end markets, leading to smartphone ICs rapidly progressing along the complexity scale. This is true in many areas of smartphone silicon, apps processor compute engines, graphics engines, AI engines, image sensors, power management and more.Our leading position in testing these key technologies has driven our growth. At the same time, up until recently, the traditional compute testing market has been relatively flat with slower refresh rates and slower complexity growth. However, the groundwork laid by mobility designs combined with advancing lithography nodes and design tools has enabled new entrants into the chip design space for compute engines. The complexity of these chips whether for laptops, servers, autonomous driving, AI or graphics is incredible and advancing at an accelerated rate. For example, laptop CPUs are now crossing the 30 billion transistor level, which is a huge leap over previous legacy designs. As we've said in the past, increased transistor counts drives increased test time and increased tester demand. We've seen that this year and there's more to come. We're targeting this expanding collection of new players and new designs, leaning heavily into our UltraFLEX family's hardware performance and time to market advantages of our software. We've been adding new design wins every quarter.And while development pipelines can be long and these new designs can be speculative, we're confident we'll see growing production business from these wins in the future. It's also notable that the traditional chip suppliers in these markets aren't standing still, they are doubling down on their advanced designs too, which is collectively driving WFE investments higher as applications expand and competition heats up. We expect this rate to lead to higher test TAMs and given the higher performance and faster design to market cycle times, more share gain opportunities for Teradyne over the midterm. Our System Test segment last year, sorry, our System Test segment year to date sales grew 11% from 2020 and Storage Test continued its multi-year growth trajectory, expanding sales 12% in the same period. Higher capacity HDDs and more complex SOC devices, which require system level test are driving this demand. Both trends are expected to continue into the foreseeable future. At LitePoint, sales were up 24% through nine months compared with 2020, driven by WiFi 6E production, WiFi seven R&D demand as well as ultra wideband. More connected devices demanding more bandwidth while managing growing congestion drives complexity increases in each new WiFi standard and more tests. UWB, on the other hand, is a whole new wireless standard and application space. It's a new proximity detection wireless technology with the future of many promising security applications.We expect these trends to continue and to provide a long term tailwind to our wireless Test business. Shifting to Industrial Automation. Universal Robots revenue grew 50% through the first nine months of the year, while MiR grew 40% despite supply chain challenges. Each has a unique story. At UR, it's a combination of increasing sales for existing tasks and the expanding number of UR+ offerings, making it easier for customers to deploy our cobots to do new applications. We highlighted welding in our last call, but other examples include screwdriving and palletizing. The UR+ ecosystem is key to expanding these tasks and now totals over 360 products created by over 300 partners, both riding on and broadening the coattails of our UR platform. This is a key advantage in the combination of our organic investments and our UR+ and OEM partners R&D dollars and creativity that's going into expanding the UR platform and it's unmatched. At MiR, the story is about new products. The MiR250 which was introduced just as COVID hit last March of last year, is now our largest seller by far. This year, we added the MiR Hook to the 250 family to expand its applications into tugging. We've introduced higher payload products such as the MiR 600 and 1350 to expand our footprint in the fast growing logistics market. Unfortunately, with all this good news come supply chain issues that will limit IA growth in 2021 to be between 30% to 40% year on year, but demand is strong.The long term outlook in IA remains very bright. Looking at the capabilities of UR cobots today, we estimate the penetration rate is less than 2% of the servable market. UR's approximate 45% market share puts us clearly in the lead, and we continue to drive R&D and distribution investments to extend our competitive advantages, expand the servable market and drive penetration higher. It's a similar story at MiR, where we estimate the autonomous mobile robot penetration is under 3%. The AMR market doesn't have a single dominant player like UR cobots, and we estimate we're close to #2 in the broadly defined market. And like at UR, we're making investments in both the distribution and product level to both reinforce our advantages and extend our product reach. In both IA businesses, the fact that our penetration of today's servable market is low single digits and that the servable market continues to expand each year with product enhancements, sets up a fantastic future. So even with very high growth rates in our IA business, we expect the penetration rates to remain low for many years, sustaining our long term annual growth forecast of 20% to 35%. In January, we will update you on the outlook for 2022 and our midterm earnings model. Between now and then, we'll be looking at the rate and timing of new semiconductor fab capacity coming online, especially at the more advanced lithography nodes. And we'll also be looking at the rate of adoption of DDR5 as key swing factors. In IA, we will be looking at the manufacturing output expansion, onshoring trends and PMIs in our principal geographies as tailwinds for continued robust growth. On the other hand, in both markets, supply chain bottlenecks could slow certain industries and become a headwind to growth demand. Short-term demand is influenced by many factors, but we manage our business aligned to the long term trends. The trend of growing prevalence of increasingly complex semiconductors and a myriad of applications drives our semiconductor business and investments. The trend of new increasingly smart, cost effective automation in a world with labor scarcity and onshoring challenges drives our IA business and investment strategy. These systemic longTerm trend paid and exciting future for Teradyne. With that I turn it over to Sanjay.Sanjay Mehta -- Chief Financial Officer, Vice President & TreasurerThanks, Mark, and hello, everyone. In my remarks, I'll review our Q3 financial results, discuss our supply line strategy in this challenging environment, provide Q4 guidance and comment on our full year financial outlook at the midpoint of our Q4 guidance to the financial headlines for Q3. Our third quarter sales were $951 million was near the high end of guidance driven by strength in Semi Test and wireless test. Gross margin in the quarter was approximately 60%. Our non-GAAP operating expenses were $242 million or 25.5% of revenue. The favorability in Opex drove a non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 35% and non-GAAP EPS of $1.59, a few more components of third quarter data. Our tax rate, excluding discrete items, was 14.8% on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. Non-GAAP diluted share count was approximately $176 million. We had two 10% customers. Looking at the results from a business unit perspective. Semi Test revenue of $688 million was up 16% from Q3 '20. SOC revenue was $575 million, up 28%, driven by strength in applications processors, RF, industrial and automotive applications. Automotive and industrials doubled revenue year over year. Memory revenue was the second highest in history at $113 million, but down 21% from Q3 of last year's record. FLASH final test demand was the strongest segment on handset and SSD end market demand. System Test group had revenue of $103 million, which was down 13% year over year. Recall Storage is the largest business in this segment and has lumpy shipments. While Storage Test will still grow more than 15% for the year, sales, including HDD and SLT declined to $56 million on the timing of shipments in Q3. Defense and aerospace and production board test combined grew 10% year on year to $47 million. At LitePoint, revenue of $69 million was up 70% from prior year due to early success of our new WiFi seven product, continued strength in 4G cellular and Utilev.Now to Industrial Automation. As in July, given COVID shutdowns had impaired the UR business in 2020, I'll provide revenue metrics comparing Q3 '21 results with both Q3 '20 and Q3 '19. Industrial Automation revenue of $91 million was up 32% from both Q3 '19 and Q3 '20. North America delivered the highest revenue growth from last year, but all regions expanded year on year. As Mark noted, supply issues, primarily semiconductors, reduced our IA shipments in the quarter. UR sales were $78 million in Q3, up 46% year over year and 31% over Q3 '19. MiR sales were $13 million, up 27% from Q3 '20 and 35% from Q3 '19. IA was about breakeven in the quarter and full, breakeven in the quarter and full year, we expect low single digit profitability. As we've noted before, we continue our strategy of investing during this high growth era while maintaining gross margins to enable mid 20s operating profit in the future. Shifting to supply. We continue to deal with numerous supply constraints across the company. While semiconductor shortages are well reported, we're also seeing delays in mechanical parts and logistics, all exacerbated by rolling COVID related shutdowns or labor shortages. We expect these issues will continue through the first half of 2022. Despite these issues, we've been able to deliver record shipments and a big part of that performance is a result of the supply line management, operations teams and engineering teams working with our supply chain and contract manufacturing partners. We view our operational business model and execution against it as a core competence. Our gross margin performance over the last 10 years displays the financial value of this model.In our test portfolio, our execution has kept most of our tester lead times within the range that meet customers' needs to expand their production capacity in this dynamic environment. The significance of this lead time performance is that customer orders more closely reflect true test demand. So while a bit counterintuitive, we feel that maintaining short lead times are a more accurate indicator of test demand with lower risk than holding orders with lead times far beyond chip manufacturing cycle times. Of course, our supply line and operations model isn't static. We begin in adding resiliency through both geographic and supplier diversity prior to COVID. Those efforts have accelerated over the last 20 months. This work is paying dividends in the current environment, and we'll continue to invest to harden our supply chain further. Our lead time performance is an example of our resilience and execution. Another example is the ability to scale to significantly increase demand. Auto and industrial sales have more than doubled year over year. While we're not perfectly aligned to all customer requested delivery dates, we are managing through delivery issues in a reasonable manner. The value of these efforts can also be seen in the operating leverage in our gross margin line. In IA, we've seen lead times extend from our normal one to two weeks to four to six weeks for some products. While this is a challenge, with the business growing so quickly and ongoing industry supply issues, we've already seen the positive impact of our work in material sourcing and manufacturing cycle times.We expect to bring lead times back to model over the next two to three quarters. Shifting to the balance sheet and cash flow. Our cash and marketable securities at the end of the quarter totaled $1.45 billion. We had $493 million in free cash flow in the quarter, and through nine months, we've spent $103 million on Capex, and we expect we'll spend $148 million for the full year. We spent $210 million and $16 million on buybacks and dividends, respectively. Year-to-date, we've repurchased 3.3 million shares for $406 million at an average price of $123.53. In 2021, we expect to return over 80% of our free cash flow to shareholders. And from 2015, when we began repurchasing shares, we've returned 85% of our free cash flow to owners. Regarding our convertible debt, $302 million of principal was paid in the first nine months to the convertible bondholders ahead of maturity. By mid December, bondholders will have converted approximately $343 million, leaving a face value of $117 million. Now to our outlook for Q4. Sales in Q4 are expected to be between $820 million and $900 million, with non-GAAP EPS in a range of $1.14 to $1.40 on 174 million diluted shares. Fourth quarter guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and noncash imputed interest on the convertible debt. Our guidance assumes no significant changes, positive or negative, in the availability of materials and assumes that we won't see additional pandemic related issues. Fourth quarter gross margins are estimated at 59% to 60%. Opex is expected to run at 28% to 31% of fourth quarter sales. The non-GAAP operating profit at the midpoint of our third quarter guidance is 30%. Regarding Opex for the full year. We spent a bit lower than planned in Q3, and we expect the full year Opex will be about $980 million, up 17% from 2020. At the midpoint of our guidance, 2021 will be another year of growth in both revenue and EPS, while sales growing, or sorry, with sales growing 18% to $3.7 billion and non-GAAP EPS growing to $5.88, up 27%. Gross margin for the full year should be approximately 59.5%, up from 57.2% in 2020, reflecting the ramp of new products, product mix and operating leverage, offsetting component and logistics cost increases. Our 2021 non-GAAP operating profit rate is expected to be about 33%, up from last year's 30%. Our full year tax rate is expected to be 14.8%. These results put us comfortably in the range of our 2024 earnings model this year.We'll update the model on our regular cadence in January. The breadth of our customer buying in 2021 is also broader than last year. In 2020, we had one customer that drove 25% of sales. In 2021, we do not expect to have any customer larger than 20% of our yearly revenue. This reflects the trend Mark noted about 2021's higher growth in compute, auto and industrial demand compared with mobility demand in Semi Test. IA growth of over 30% year over year continues to diversify our revenue. This growth is expected to continue over the midterm and become a larger portion of our revenue. In summary, we expect to end the year with another quarter of strong year on year revenue and EPS growth. On a full year basis, we'll exceed our midterm targets on stronger than expected demand on our test businesses, continued high growth in IA and excellent execution across the company. While we don't have a clear picture of 2022 yet, we're confident in the long term industry trends powering our test and IA businesses remain firmly in place. With that, I'll turn the call back to Andy.Andrew J. Blanchard -- Vice President of Corporate RelationsThanks, Sanjay. Patrice, we would now like to take some questions. And as a reminder, please limit yourself to one question and a follow up.