  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the SiriusXM's first quarter 2020 financial and operating results conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions]. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Hooper Stevens, senior vice president, investor relations and finance. Mr. Stevens, please go ahead.Hooper Stevens -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, and Finance

 



 Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to SiriusXM's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. Today, we will have prepared remarks from Jennifer Witz, our chief executive officer; and Sean Sullivan, our chief financial officer. Scott Greenstein, our president and chief content officer, will join Jennifer and Sean to take your questions. I would like to remind everyone that certain statements made during the call might be forward-looking statements as the term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These and all forward-looking statements are based upon management's current beliefs and expectations, and necessarily depend upon assumptions, data, or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For more information about those risks and uncertainties, please view SiriusXM's SEC filings and today's earnings release.We advise listeners to not rely unduly on forward-looking statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them. As we begin, I would like to remind our listeners that today's call will include discussions about both actual results and adjusted results. All discussions of adjusted operating results exclude the effects of stock-based compensation. With that, I'll hand the call over to Jennifer. Jennifer Witz -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you for joining us today. SiriusXM reported solid first quarter growth in both subscription and advertising revenue, and healthy cash generation even after substantial investments in our business. We are reaffirming all of our subscriber and financial guidance for the year. Each day, we make progress in shaping the future of audio entertainment in North America with curated, distinct, and original content, exclusive live events, and a growing podcast business. Audio in America is thriving, and so is SiriusXM. According to recent Edison Research, monthly online audio listeners in the U.S. grew to 73% of the 12 and up U.S. population, up from 68% a year prior. Daily audio time is also increasing, with Americans on average spending 17 more minutes per day with audio compared to the same time in 2020. At SiriusXM, consumption of our unique content via streaming is contributing to this growth as we are seeing time spent listening to SiriusXM growing meaningfully faster than our subscriber base. These industry trends are also driving enhanced monetization as is evident in the IAB's new Internet advertising revenue report, which found that digital audio was the fastest-growing advertising segment last year, climbing to almost $5 billion. This underscores the continued opportunity for scale within this segment of our business. SXM Media has established itself as a leader as the No. 1 ranked podcasting ad network, powering significant growth in our advertising revenue. Across all of our platforms, we reach approximately 150 million monthly listeners and we are extremely well positioned for future growth. As you saw in the release, SiriusXM self-pay net additions were slightly negative in the first quarter, with growth in digital subscriptions, partially offsetting a decline in our traditional in-car subscription.

 



 First quarter net additions, much as in the fourth quarter, were impacted by the lower auto sales we began to see in the second half of last year, as supply constraints became more pronounced. These conditions have not yet eased. SAAR actually declined sequentially each month in the first quarter, and inventories remain very tight. We're always working very hard to outperform our guidance, but we will be closely watching supply chains and sales volumes, and we'll, of course, keep you updated as the year progresses. With all this uncertainty in the general economic environment, consumer demand for both new and used vehicles and our service is healthy. We continue to retain subscribers with an excellent monthly churn rate of just 1.6%, and ARPU reached a record level in the first quarter, climbing 9% year over year as pricing actions we took late last year continue to yield benefits. Our new car and estimated used car penetration rates grew modestly to 83% and 52%, respectively, and our enabled fleet is now nearly 146 million cars. We continue to make progress deploying 360L at many automakers. The rollout of 360L and the enhanced features that come with it, is a long-term investment that will enable us to grow subscription revenue and eventually even our ad platform for years to come. Sean will talk more about the financials, but we are making substantial investments to build additional paths to grow beyond our traditional vehicle funnels. We have doubled down on brand marketing to position ourselves for younger audiences and out-of-car streaming, and in performance marketing to drive digital acquisitions. We believe building out a digital funnel is the right thing for the business long term. Remember, our economics on our digital subscribers are very strong, especially compared to other audio streaming companies and enable us to invest to grow this funnel. Subscribers listening on our digital platforms to on-demand content are up more than 50% year over year, demonstrating growing demand for more control and personalized content within SiriusXM, and this will increase as awareness grows. During our last earnings call, we discussed the new hire of Joe Inzerillo, our head of product and technology. One quarter into the job, he is already having an impact on our company, as we accelerate the current state of our tech across the organization and map out the future of our business. By improving personalization and recommendations in the SXM app and 360L, easing digital onboarding, widening distribution on 10-foot devices, and speeding innovation in car, we are broadening the attractiveness of SiriusXM to potential subscribers across the board. We are adding talent with diverse experience, building customer-centric digital products, and we plan to increase our velocity to market. We believe these investments will benefit subscriber growth long term, whether in-car or purely digital. Our best-in-class content drives engagement and subscriber loyalty. We've introduced listeners to first-time artist channels from the legendary Joni Mitchell, rock & soul icon, Tina Turner, Avril Lavigne, Maren Morris; and a year long channel from one  of the best-selling acts in music history, Red Hot Chili Peppers. We also brought back artists and partner-branded channels that drew headlines and subscriber attention, such as Neil Young Radio and the David Bowie channel. Our programming regularly honors important groups that are being recognized throughout the country. During women's history months, we created a channel devoted to the defining female-led festival tour of the '90s, Love Affair. It aired alongside other programming dedicated to female artists across genres. During Black History Month, we worked with artists and their representatives to create curated channels for the Aretha Franklin Channel, Miles Davis Radio, and the Motown channel. We created the Grammy channel to showcase this year's artist nominees leading up to music's biggest night. Pandora continued to create new ways for listeners to experience the music they love, by creating a personalized station mode curated by LeBron James on uninterrupted radio, adding a number of top Latin artists to our suite of billionaire stations and by teaming up with SoundCloud to highlight innovative emerging artists with a new Digicore by SoundCloud station. This is an extension of SiriusXM's collaboration with SoundCloud, which boasts an existing channel, SoundCloud Radio, and an original show, a lookout by SoundCloud on HipHop Nation. The live experience is so important to our subscribers and listeners and SiriusXM and Pandora continue to offer great live performances for thousands of fans with major artists, including Avril Lavigne, John Legend, John Mayer, and Kelly Roland. Our multifaceted relationship with TikTok allowed us to amplify and extend the reach of some of these events to younger audiences. In the comedy world, we launched Its Showtime at the Apollo Comedy, the channel showcase the very best stand up from the program's decades long run, including early performances from some of today's biggest comedians. Our approach to podcasting is purposely multi-tracked. Some agreements are with major podcast brands for exclusive global rights to advertising inventory and others go beyond that and involve close collaboration in the content of the shows or in which podcasters have the opportunity to expand their audience and profile by appearing on SiriusXM channels. It's our experience that great podcast can also make great content on Sirius XM. And so we launched new cross-platform endeavors, such as the first ever streaming channel dedicated to a podcast, for economics, serving as a curated collection of the best of the award-winning series. We launched two new live shows, Open Lines on Fashion in which the host of the popular horror comedy podcast, Last Podcast on the Left, talked directly with listeners about a paranormal topic of their choice, and It's Me Tanks Live on the Starz channel in which the well-known digital creator and host of the popular podcast gives advice directly to listeners. We are the top network in the Triton Digital podcast report, in average weekly users and downloads and several of our shows received high honors, including seven AMB award nominations and a win for the best comedy podcast. And we just received seven Webby awards, including two for our popular Conan O'Brien Needs a friend. Additionally, SXM Media, the company's combined advertising sales group is the undisputed leader in podcast ad sales, and we are the No. 1 podcast advertising network and weekly U.S. listener reach per Edison Research. And the representative of four of the top 15 podcasts in the country, including Crime Junkie, Office Ladies, Dateline NBC, and soon God Save America. Over the past several months, we signed even more exclusive podcast sales and distribution agreements with a variety of publishers, including Crooked Media, which showcases some of the most popular and critically acclaimed podcast in the country, such as the aforementioned God Save America and Revolver, a leading multicultural audio on-demand content creator and publisher. We're also seeing more digital content creators turning to podcasting to expand their brand and partnering with us to scale their audio presence. Along with Tink, we recently signed new deals with both Critical Role and Therapy Gecko, both of which gained niche, but significant fame through live video streaming and are now extending into the audio space. So many of our listeners love sports, and we are seeing significant year-over-year increases in the consumption of sports content. We are committed to the best live coverage of the biggest event. SiriusXM and IM Athlete, the media network founded by former NFL All-Pro receiver Brandon Marshall, have teamed up on a new content deal that includes a live nightly show on our Mad Dog Sports Radio channel. As part of the agreement, SXM Media is also now the exclusive global ad representative for the popular IM Athlete audio podcast. Last year, we signed an agreement to become the exclusive audio provider of the Masters tournament. And this year, we provided top-notch coverage across all four rounds of the tournament for golf fans and added new voices to our team. Mike Tirico, Curtis Strange, Suzy Whaley, and Steve Melnyk. NFL continues to be one of our most popular sports offerings, and we capped the season by offering multiple broadcast of the Super Bowl from L.A. NFL Radio, Mad Dog Sports Radio, SiriusXM Fantasy Sports radio, ESPNU Radio, and other channels broadcast daily from Radio Row at the LA Convention Center, while several Star personalities, including Kevin Hart, Conan O'Brien, and Sway Calloway hosted Super Bowl week specials from our LA Studios. SiriusXM covered two inaugural events featuring athletes from historically black colleges and universities. The NBA HBCU Classic and the HBCU legacy bowl, giving listeners live access to these two great games in their first year. From sports and music to news, talk, and entertainment, we continue to bring our listeners a best-in-class listening experience across platforms, ranging from Can't Miss live programming to standout music and comedy curation to award-winning podcasts. All in all, I'm pleased with how SiriusXM is weathering the challenging auto sales environment, investing to improve and accelerate our digital distribution and growing our ad platform via podcasting. We also continue to generate significant cash flows that enable us to shape our future and reward our stockholders. For more details on those financials, I'll turn it over to Sean.Sean Sullivan -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jennifer. To highlight Q1 results, revenue increased by 6% in the first quarter with advertising revenue up 8% to $383 million. Adjusted EBITDA grew 1% to $690 million, a new first quarter record, even as we continue to make meaningful investments in sales and marketing, plus revenue share associated with our podcasting Ad Rep deals. Diluted earnings per share were $0.08 versus $0.05 in last year's first quarter, when we had the impact of $245 million in noncash impairment charges. We generated 258 million of free cash flow during the first quarter, up 22% from the prior year, primarily on higher receipts from customers, partially offset by higher satellite capital expenditures. Turning to our operating segments. For SiriusXM, total revenue in the first quarter increased 6.4% to $1.7 billion, driven by the 9% growth in ARPU, offset by lower paid trial subscribers. Gross profit in the SiriusXM segment climbed 8% to $1.07 billion, representing a margin of 62%. In the Pandora and off-platform segment, advertising revenue of $336 million increased 8% in the first quarter with Pandora's ad revenue per 1,000 hours reaching a first quarter record of $90. In the first quarter, our podcasting and off-platform businesses generated $95 million in revenue, an increase of 42% year over year. We expect these businesses will represent a growing portion of this segment's revenue over time. Gross profit in the Pandora and off-platform segment was flat at $137 million, in what is typically a seasonally light ad revenue quarter, with a 29% gross margin, slightly lower than last year, given meaningful investments in new podcast content that are still early in monetization. Today, we reiterate our existing guidance for 2022. Revenue of approximately 9 billion, adjusted EBITDA of approximately 2.8 billion, and free cash flow of approximately 1.55 billion. As Jennifer mentioned, we continue to expect approximately 500,000 net new self-pay SiriusXM subscribers this year. We continue to expect that supply constraints impacting auto sales will push the substantial majority of our projected self-pay subscriber growth to the second half of the year. Both advertising and subscription revenue will contribute to growth in 2022 as advertising momentum continues and subscription revenue benefits from rate action. Our adjusted EBITDA guidance this year reflects meaningful investments in product, content, and marketing to drive growth in digital. On the capital allocation front, we were pleased with the reaction to February's $1 billion special dividend to our stockholders. And even with that, in the 50% increase to our recurring dividend last fall, we still repurchased 200 million of stock during the quarter. We ended the first quarter at 3.5 times net debt to EBITDA, flat with year-end 2021 pro forma for the special dividend and within the low to mid-threes range, we've told you to continue to expect. Our balance sheet remains extremely well positioned and earlier this month, we availed ourselves of an opportunity to take on an additional $500 million two-year term loan to reduce our revolver balance at even lower rates. As always, we retain significant flexibility to continue investments to grow the business, examine acquisition opportunities and to continue returning capital to our stockholders via dividends and share repurchases. With that, operator, let's open it up to Q&A. 