
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the American Electric Power Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.[Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference to our host, Vice President of Investor Relations, Ms. Darcy Reese. Please go ahead.

 



Darcy Reese -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you, Tani. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the second quarter 2021 earnings call for American Electric Power. We appreciate you taking the time to join us today.Our earnings release, presentation slides and related financial information are available on our website at aep.com. Today, we will be making forward-looking statements during the call. There are many factors that may cause future results to differ materially from these statements. Please refer to our SEC filings for a discussion of these factors.Joining me this morning for opening remarks are Nick Akins, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Julie Sloat, our Chief Financial Officer. We will take your questions following their remarks.

 



I will now turn the call over to Nick.Nicholas K. Akins -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerOkay. Thanks, Darcy, and welcome again everyone to American Electric Power's second quarter 2021 earnings call.Today, we reported strong second quarter operating earnings of $1.18 per share versus $1.08 for the same period of 2020. Our second quarter results reflect significant progress in terms of economic recovery throughout AEP service territory, with a continued focus on O&M as we navigate through, what is hopefully, an emergence from the COVID-19 pandemic.

 



Gross regional product has already exceeded, as pre-pandemic levels and employment across AEP service territory is now within 2% of its pre-pandemic levels after adding over 163,000 jobs in the first six months this year. Increased vaccinations, combined with the additional fiscal stimulus from the American Rescue Plan, were contributing to the strong demand for goods and services throughout the economy.AEP's normalized retail sales in the second quarter of 2021 were the highest we've seen since the second quarter of 2018. Clearly, we are pleased with the improvements we've seen thus far and will continue to monitor the recovery's progress over the second half of the year. Accordingly, we are reaffirming our 2021 guidance range of $4.55 to $4.75 per share and a 5% to 7% long-term growth rate, and would be again disappointed not to be in the upper half of our stated guidance range as we have previously stated. Julie will be discussing these issues in more detail in her report.Rate case activity across our jurisdictions continues to be active and substantial. In Ohio, we are awaiting an order by the Commission on the settlement reached and filed with the Commission earlier this year. As a reminder, the settlement has broad support from the settling parties, including the Commission Staff, the Ohio Consumers' Counsel, industrial companies, commercial companies, and other entities like Ohio Hospital Association. We expect a decision in the third quarter of this year.Public Service Company of Oklahoma filed a rate case at the end of April. PSO is seeking $115.4 million net revenue increase and a 10% ROE. The filing transitions North Central costs from the rider established in the approval into base rates. The case also seeks to continue a distribution rider, recover RTO expenses, and update depreciation rates. Testimony of the parties is due in August, with the hearing scheduled for September and an order expected in the fourth quarter of 2021.In Indiana, I&M filed a base rate case on July 1. The filing is based on the future test year model and seeks a $97 million net revenue increase with a 10% ROE. The major items in the case include the recognition of over $500 million in capital investments per year in Indiana, continuation of the transmission tracker, a federal tax rider should those changes occur, and deployment of AMI meters to provide customers more control and insight into their usage.In our SWEPCO jurisdictions, we have rate cases pending in Louisiana and Texas and are preparing a filing in Arkansas for tomorrow, July 23. In Texas, a hearing was held in May and SWEPCO filed its reply brief and proposed findings of facts and law on July 1. SWEPCO is seeking a net revenue increase of $73 million and an ROE of 10.35%. The filing includes investment made from February 2018, accelerated depreciation for three coal plants, an increase in storm reserve and vegetation management. We expect an order in the fourth quarter with rates relating back to the effective date of March 2021.In Louisiana, a procedural schedule was set with testimony due in the third quarter of 2021 and a hearing in January of 2022. The case seeks a $93 million net revenue increase and a 10.35% ROE. An order is expected between the second and third quarter of 2022.In Arkansas, the case will contain a formula rate plan for subsequent years and consider the retirement of previously announced coal lignite assets. This filing is timed to align with North Central in-service dates and to provide a mechanism, both, for recovery of costs associated with the investment and flow-through of the PTC to SWEPCO customers.We have certificate filings in Virginia, West Virginia, and Kentucky, related to investments needed to comply with the CCR and ELG rules on coal plants in the region. We have received an order in Kentucky and an ALJ decision in Virginia denying ELG investments. Final decisions from the Virginia Commission and the West Virginia Commission will be received in the third quarter of 2021. We understand that these are difficult decisions for states to make regarding the future of their generation resources.We'll be working with our commissions to navigate the implications of how each state's decision will affect the ongoing operations of these plants. SWEPCO and PSO continue to make good progress with their commissions to recognize the Storm Uri expenditures. Julie will cover this in more detail in her comments. But, as a reminder, we filed for recovery of a lack return over five years in Louisiana, Arkansas and Oklahoma, and will do so in the near future in Texas. PSO is filed for a financing authority to explore the securitization option that was established by the legislature.The company's plan to transition as generation fleet and reduce carbon emissions by 80% by 2030 and net zero by 2050 is well underway. In April, we announced new resource plans that include the addition of up to 16,600 megawatts of regulated renewable resources over the next decade. This plan provides a meaningful opportunity to invest in clean energy resources, while benefiting our customers and strengthening our communities. Our $2 billion investment in the North Central Wind facilities is a first and a very significant step forward in this transition and it provides a solid foundation for our clean energy transformation.The Sundance facility was placed in service in the second quarter, and the Maverick and Traverse facilities remain on time and on budget for completion during the fourth quarter '21 and first quarter '22, respectively. Solicitations also are underway for additional large-scale renewable acquisitions at APCO and SWEPCO, and we expect to issue the RFP to begin to fill the resource needs for PSO in October 2021.Our transmission investments continue to be strong, helping our communities prepare for a clean, more efficient and resilient energy future. Our Transmission Holdco contributed $0.34 per share in the second quarter, up $0.15 from the same period last year. We remain engaged in the various processes at RTOs and FERC, as we advocate the need for transmission and more robust comprehensive planning methodologies to ensure that our path to a clean energy economy is as smooth as possible. We also continue to be a strong like many supportive of achieving net zero targets for the continuation of the 50 basis point RTO incentive. This important incentive codified in the Federal Power Act is critical to ensuring the needed transmission investment is made as we transition to a clean energy economy.If this nation is to move quickly to a clean energy environment, there must be a resolution and clarity around the important issues of investment return expectations, as well as long-standing issues of transmission citing processes and cost allocation mechanisms. FERC certainly seems to be on the right track as they look at transmission-related planning issues to spur additional development; but, of course, investment related incentives are important in that equation as well.Okay, now, regarding the strategic process that is ongoing, regarding our Kentucky assets.We're on track with the timeline we shared previously to have an announcement of our complete process, one way or another, by year end. As we have stated previously, keep in mind that we must obtain FERC and Kentucky Public Service Commission approvals before a deal could close, so that could push into 2022. As we focus on reaching a suitable transaction deal, we would announce in 2021 and move forward expeditiously on these two filings in parallel and reach closing as soon as possible. These regulatory approval processes are 180 days for the FERC Section 203 filing and 120 days for the Kentucky Public Service Commission transfer of control review.While this is an ongoing confidential process, progress is being made. It reminds me of the Carly Simon song, Anticipation; and if I paraphrase some of the lyrics, we can never know about the days to come, but we think about them anyway and hopefully you're chasing after some finer day; more to come during the rest of 2021 on what that finer day looks like for AEP.Last but not least, our Achieving Excellence Program is a year-over-year effort to maintain our cost discipline. Our efforts year-to-date have largely centered on the returning to the workplace. The vast majority of those that would be in the office are returning in August. Like many employers, we will accommodate remote, hybrid, and onsite work going forward. What was once 100% onsite for our office staff, prior to the pandemic, will become approximately 24% remote, 43% hybrid, and 33% onsite when we fully return, and that excludes field level employees, of course.We plan to reap the benefits of reduced travel, less occupied office space, savings on real estate, a broader talent pool, and improved worker efficiency through digitization and automation initiatives that accelerated during the COVID-19 pandemic.As you know, one of the highest priorities involve, ensuring AEP is active in supporting our communities and serving as a positive voice and force for social justice and advancing racial equality. We have engaged both in community dialogs as well as conversations within the company to promote a deeper understanding and commitment to meaningful change. Our efforts include a renewed focus in our charitable giving to support our organizations that are focused on these efforts.Our AEP Foundation has announced significant additional focus on social injustice related initiatives. These activities not only support the culture we expect within AEP, but also sets an example for our communities and the nation on what could be in this country.So now, I'll move to the equalizer chart and I think you have that with the bubbles of each company. For that, I will remind everybody we generally target the ROE for the regulated segments to be in the 9.5% to 10% range. The ROEs, you have to keep in mind though, that we are and have been in the process of thickening the equity layers over the last several years, so we have to take that into account.For AEP Ohio, the ROE for AEP Ohio comes in at 9.7%; its ROE is near authorized primarily, due to timely recovery of capital investments. We expect the ROE to continue to trend around those authorized levels and, of course, I mentioned earlier, we're awaiting on the commission order as well. At APCO, the ROE is coming in at 8.1%; its ROE was below authorized, due to higher amortization primarily related to the retired coal-fired generating assets and higher depreciation from increased Virginia depreciation rates and capital investments. And, of course, I've already talked previously about the Virginia case and and where it stands with the Virginia Supreme Court.In Kentucky, the ROE is 5.9%. Kentucky's ROE is below authorized, due to the loss of load from weak economic conditions and loss of major customers along with higher expenses. In June 2020, Kentucky Power filed a base rate case seeking $65 million revenue increase and ROE of 10%, Kentucky Power received a final order in its base case rates that went into effect in January of 2021, authorizing ROE of 9.3% and a revenue increase of $52 million.I&M came in at 9.8%. Their ROE is consistent with authorized ROEs, which are 9.-- 8.6% [phonetic] in Michigan and 9.7% [phonetic] in Indiana. Earlier in July 2021, as I mentioned earlier, they filed a new rate case in Indiana and we'll continue on with that. PSO came in at 7.9% and it's below its authorized level, primarily due to increased capital investment currently made in base rates and higher-than-anticipated equity due to the extreme February winter weather event, which Julie will be talking about a little bit later. And then, of course, in April 2021, as I mentioned earlier, we filed a new base rate case there as well.For SWEPCO, the ROE of SWEPCO is 7.9%; its below authorized, primarily due to increased capital investment currently non-base [phonetic] base rates and the continued impact of the Arkansas share of the Turk Plant that is not in retail rates. And, of course, I've mentioned earlier, it affects it by about 110 basis points.So, we have the three cases. In October 2020, SWEPCO filed the Texas case in which we're still awaiting an outcome. SWEPCO also is filing the Arkansas case and then, I mentioned earlier, the Louisiana case as well.AEP Texas is at 7.9%. Their ROE is below authorized, primarily again to a significant level of investment in Texas and the timing of the annual cost recovery filings associated with that investment. As you recall, we have DCRF and TCOS filings to recover on a pretty regular basis. So, the expectation is for the ROE to continue to hover around that 8% because of all the investment that's going in that state, but should trend toward 9.4% in the longer term.AEP Transmission Holdco, the ROE for Holdco is at 11%. The ROE is above authorized, primarily driven by higher revenues due to differences between actual and forecasted revenues. The Transcos benefit from a forward-looking form of a rate mechanism, which helps minimize regulatory lag. So, our transmission is forecasting to continue to be around that 11% in 2021.So, overall, about 9%; but, again reminding of the equity layers have increased actually pretty substantially over the last few years. So, that's one of the trade-offs that are being made there.Okay, so in closing, we had a strong quarter in the first half of the year. I'm proud of the accomplishments our employees have made in 2021 and the commitment that our team makes day in and day out to the communities we serve, especially during the pandemic, and as we come out of this trying time. Our employees continue to focus on maintaining a high level of discipline in controlling cost, and with the broad economy on the mend, certainly gives us confidence in the rest of the year and delivering on the mission of consistent earnings and dividend growth expectations that we have produced year after year.If I look at the key areas for AEP to address for the remainder of '21 and into '22, they are, to conclude the strategic review of Kentucky, conclude North Central with the appropriate financing ownership and recovery, advance our clean energy transition with a 16,600 megawatts of renewable resources, and continue the improvement of our credit metrics in line with our 2022 expectations, which Julie will talk about again. Of course, all of this is grounded fundamentally by safety, cultural and operational excellence expectations with a focus on execution.If we have any Foo Fighter fans on the call, the Rock Hall is inducting them into this year's class of inductees. They did a song called, This will be our year, which was originally recorded about The Zombies, but it says, now, we're there and we've only just begun, this will be our year, took a long time to come. This is true for AEP regarding our clean energy transition and our execution toward portfolio optimization.With that, I'll turn it over to Julie.Julie Sloat -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerAll right, thanks, Nick, thanks Darcy. It's good to be with everyone this morning.I'm going to walk us through the second quarter and year-to-date financial results, share some thoughts on our service territory load, and finish with a review of our credit metrics and liquidity.So, let's go to Slide number 6, which shows the comparison of GAAP to operating earnings for the quarter and year-to-date periods.GAAP earnings for the second quarter were $1.16 per share compared to $1.05 per share in 2020. GAAP earnings through June were $2.31 per share compared to $2.05 per share in 2020. There is a reconciliation of GAAP to operating earnings on pages 14 and 15 of the presentation today.So, let's walk through our quarterly operating earnings performance by segment, that's laid out on Slide number 7.Operating earnings for the second quarter totaled $1.18 per share or $590 million, compared to $1.08 per share or $534 million in 2020. Operating earnings for the Vertically Integrated Utilities were $0.45 per share, down $0.10 driven by a year-over-year increase in the O&M, due to lower prior-year O&M, which included actions we took to adjust to the pandemic. Other pressures included lower wholesale load and higher depreciation, and other taxes. These items were partially offset by the impact of rate changes across multiple jurisdictions, higher normalized retail load, transmission revenue and off-system sales.The Transmission and Distribution Utilities segment earned $0.31 per share, up $0.02 from last year. Favorable drivers in this segment included higher normalized retail load, transmission revenue, and rate changes. Partially offsetting these favorable items were higher tax, depreciation and O&M expenses, as well as unfavorable weather and lower AFUDC.The AEP Transmission Holdco segment continued to grow, contributing $0.34 per share, an improvement of $0.15, which got a boost because of the unfavorable annual true up last year, consistent with the 2021 earnings guidance assumptions we had provided to you. Our fundamental return on investment growth continued, as net plant increased by $1.4 billion or 13% since June of last year.Generation and marketing produced $0.09 per share, down $0.02 from last year, influenced by the prior-year land sales and one-time items relating to an Oklaunion ARO adjustment and the sale of Conesville. These were mostly offset in the Generation business by higher energy margins and lower expenses from the retirement of Oklaunion.Finally, corporate and other was up $0.05 per share, driven by investment gains and lower taxes, which was partially offset by higher O&M and net interest expense. So, bear with me a moment, I am going to talk a little bit more about that investment gain as we walk through the year-to-date view.So, if you flip to Slide 8, we can look at year-to-date results.Operating earnings through June totaled $2.33 per share or $1.2 billion, compared to $2.10 per share or $1 billion in 2020. Looking at the drivers by segment, operating earnings for Vertically Integrated Utilities were $1 per share, down $0.05, due to higher O&M and depreciation expenses. Other smaller increases included lower normalized retail and wholesale load, higher other taxes, and a prior-period fuel adjustment. The impact of weather was favorable, due to the warmer-than-normal temps in the winter of 2020. Other favorable items in this segment included the impact of rate changes across multiple jurisdictions, higher off-system sales, and transmission revenue.The Transmission and Distribution Utilities segment earned $0.54 per share, up $0.01 from last year. Earnings in this segment were up. due to higher transmission revenue, rate changes, weather and normalized retail load. Partially offsetting these favorable items were higher tax, depreciation, O&M, and interest expenses, as well as lower AFUDC.The AEP Transmission Holdco segment contributed $0.68 per share, up $0.21 from last year, for the same reasons identified in the quarterly comparison. Generation and marketing produced $0.16 per share, down $0.02 from last year, due to favorable one-time items in the prior year, relating to an Oklaunion ARO adjustment in the sale of Conesville. Higher energy margins and lower expenses in the Generation business offset the unfavorable ERCOT market prices on the wholesale business during Storm Uri in February. The decrease in renewables business was driven by lower energy margins and higher expenses.Finally, corporate and other was up $0.08 per share, driven by investment gains and lower taxes, and partially offset by higher O&M. So, let me take a quick moment to comment about the investment gain, which is predominantly a function of our direct and indirect investment in ChargePoint. As you'll see on the waterfall, this produced a $0.09 benefit year-to-date in 2021 as compared to the corresponding 2020 period. You may recall that in the fourth quarter and full-year 2020, this investment produced a $0.05 contribution, and we would expect the year-over-year variance to be more pronounced at this point in 2021 as we had no benefit during the same period in 2020.So, turning to Page 9, I'll update you on our normalized load performance for the quarter.Before I talk about class level trends, I'd like to start with a couple of observations at a macro level. So, first of all, since all of these charts are showing a year-over-year growth, it is important to recall that the second quarter of 2020 was at the trough of the recession, when restrictions on businesses to manage the public health crisis were at their greatest. So, the magnitude of growth percentages is being influenced by the comparison basis.And the second observation is that there has been a steady path to recovery since bottoming out in the second quarter of last year. The momentum we're seeing is a positive sign for the economic recovery throughout the service territory. So, if you start in the upper left corner, you'll see that normalized residential sales were down 3.1% compared to last year, bringing the year-to-date decline down to 0.5%. As mentioned earlier, the comparison basis is the key here. You'll notice that residential sales were up 6.2%, when the COVID restrictions were at their greatest. In fact, one year later, they're only down 3.1%, which suggests some of the increase in residential is having some staying power as more businesses have embraced a remote workforce for jobs that can be easily performed at home. In fact, the second quarter normalized sales in 2021 were the second highest second quarter on record, exceeding every second quarter before the pandemic began.So, moving to the right, weather normalized commercial sales increased by 10%, bringing the year-to-date growth up to 3.9%. If you compare this with the residential class, you'll notice the commercial sales growth in the second quarter is more symmetrical with last year, when sales were down just over 10%. The growth in commercial sales for the quarter is spread across all operating companies and most sectors. The only sector that was down slightly compared to last year was grocery stores, which were very busy at the onset of the pandemic trying to keep shelves stocked when panic purchasing was at its highest.So, moving to the lower left corner, you'll see that the industrial sales also bounced back in the second quarter. Industrial sales for the quarter increased by 12.8%, bringing the year-to-date growth up [phonetic] 2.8%. Similar to the commercial class, you'll see a symmetrical recovery compared to the second quarter of 2020, when sales were down 12.4%. Also, industrial sales were up at every operating company and nearly every sector. The only industrial sector in our top 10, that reported less sales this year compared to the second quarter of 2020, is the paper manufacturing sector, which ironically was also higher last year, partially due to panic purchasing of toilet paper. This is a phenomenon that none of us is likely to forget, especially if you one of the folks who didn't get a jump on it.Finally, in the lower right corner, you can see that, in total, normalized retail sales increased by 6.3% for the quarter and were up 1.9% through the first half of the year. By all indications, recovery from the pandemic and the recession are on a firm footing.So, let's go to Slide 10. There are two more charts here to help put the second quarter normalized sales performance into perspective. The bar chart shows the last five years of weather-normalized retail sales in the second quarters for the AEP System. Our retail load performance in the second quarter 2021 has not only recovered from the set recession, but it is also the highest second quarter since 2018.The line chart on the bottom of this page shows the seasonally adjusted retail sales by quarter, which provides an illustration of the trend of the recovery and again confirms that our current level of sales is the highest since the second quarter of 2018. So, before we leave the load story, let me remind you of an important factor to consider when evaluating the impact of load growth, the mix matters.So, while we're seeing strong growth now in commercial and industrial sales, those are priced at much lower realizations than the decline we're seeing in residential sales. To further illustrate this point, the impact of the pandemic was most pronounced in our biggest metropolitan area, that's Columbus, Ohio. Since AEP Ohio is in the T&D Utility segment where we only collect an unbundled rate, the strong recovery that we're seeing this year is coming in at much lower realizations than the System average.Finally, let me remind you that there are rate design mechanisms in place to limit the exposure when entering a downturn, that can also limit the impact when you're coming out of recession. So, while the industrial sales are up significantly this year versus last year, it does not mean the revenues will increase by the same percentage.So, what does all this mean when we think about the remainder of 2020? Well, it means that our confidence in our earnings guidance range is fortified by what we're seeing. It suggests that the load trends we anticipated are coming to fruition as the chart on Page 9 illustrates, our continued investment at Transco is fueling strong performance in this segment beyond the favorable true up impact that we had anticipated. And while O&M is up, it's enabling us to take care of our business and customer needs, given the low growth we're seeing. Obviously, we have the second half of the year to navigate, but we are pleased with the direction and are keeping a watchful eye on economic activity in our service territory while scanning for any impact associated with the rise in COVID variants.So, let's check in on the company's capitalization and liquidity position on Page 11.On a GAAP basis, our debt to capital ratio increased 0.1% from the prior year quarter to 62.6%. When adjusted for the Storm Uri event, the ratio remains consistent with year-end 2020 at 61.8%. Let's talk about our FFO to debt metric. As it did in the first quarter, the effect of Storm Uri continued to have a temporary and noticeable impact in 2021 on this metric. Taking a look at the upper right quadrant on this page, you'll see that our FFO to debt metric based on the traditional Moody's and GAAP-calculated basis, as well as on an adjusted Moody's and GAAP-calculated basis.On a traditional unadjusted basis, our FFO to debt ratio increased by 0.2% during the quarter to 9.3% on a Moody's basis. On an adjusted basis, the Moody's FFO to debt metric is 12.8%. To be very clear, this 12.8% figure removes or adjusts the calculation to eliminate the impact of approximately $1.2 billion of cash outflows associated with covering the unplanned Uri-driven fuel and purchase power costs in the SPP region, directly impacting PSO and SWEPCO in particular. This metric is also adjusted to remove the effect of the associated debt that we used to fund the unplanned payments. It should give you a sense of where we would be from a business-as-usual perspective.As you know, we are in frequent contact with the rating agencies to keep them apprised of all aspects of our business. The rating agencies continue to take the anticipated regulatory recovery into consideration as it relates to our credit rating. And importantly, there continues to be no change on our equity financing plan and our multi-year cash flow forecast, that's laid out on page 39, does not assume any asset rotation proceeds.Given the regulatory recovery activity that's currently in place [phonetic], we do expect our FFO to debt cash flow metric to return to the low-to-mid teens target range next year.So, here's a quick refresh on where all this regulatory activity stands today for PSO and SWEPCO. In Oklahoma, we're working through the regulatory process and anticipate issuing securitization bonds in the first half of 2022. In both Arkansas and Louisiana, recovery is underway, while final details get worked out in the regulatory process. And we'll be filing for recovery in Texas in the third quarter of 2021.So, let's take a quick moment to visit our liquidity summary on Slide 11.You'll see here that our liquidity position remains strong at $3.3 billion, supported by our five-year $4 billion bank revolver and two-year $1 billion revolving credit facility that we entered into on March 31 of this year. If you look at the lower left side of the page, you'll see that our qualified pension continues to be well funded and our OPEB is funded at 174.2%.So, let's go to Slide 12, we'll do a quick wrap up and we can get to your questions.Our performance in the first half of the year gives us confidence to reaffirm our operating earnings guidance range of $4.55 per share to $4.75 per share because of our ability to continue to invest in our own system organically, including both our energy delivery system and the transformation of our generation fleet. We're confident in our ability to grow the company at our stated long-term growth rate of 5% to 7%.So, we surely do appreciate your time and attention today. So, with that I'm going to turn the call over to the operator for your questions.