
OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the Chipotle Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Ashish Kohli, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Ashish Kohli -- Head of Investor Relations

 



Hello, everyone, and welcome to our second quarter fiscal 2021 earnings call. By now, you should have access to our earnings press release. If not, it may be found on our Investor Relations website at ir.chipotle.com.I will begin by reminding you that certain statements and projections made in this presentation about our future business and financial results constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current business and market expectations, and our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Please see the risk factors contained in our annual report on Form 10-K and in our Form 10-Qs for a discussion of risks that may cause our actual results to vary from these forward-looking statements.Our discussion today will include non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found via the link included on the presentation page within the Investor Relations section of our website.We will start today's call with prepared remarks from Brian Niccol, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Jack Hartung, Chief Financial Officer, after which we will take your questions. Our entire executive leadership team is available during the Q&A session.

 



And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Brian.Brian Niccol -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Ashish, and good afternoon, everyone.Chipotle second quarter results highlight the strength of our brand and our people, as we demonstrated growing momentum in our business. Over the past 15 months, our teams have done an admirable job navigating and executing against macro complexities while giving us great optimism for where we go from here. While COVID challenges remain, including uncertainty regarding the impact of the Delta variant, I'm confident that our teams are up to the challenge and we're hopeful that we'll gradually see a more stable environment over time. Specific to Chipotle, we're pleased that all of our restaurants are now open and most are back to normal operations.

 



For the quarter, we reported sales of $1.9 billion, representing 38.7% year-over-year growth, which was fueled by 31.2% comparable restaurant sales growth; restaurant level margin of 24.5%, was more than doubled the 12.2% we reported last year; earnings per share adjusted for unusual items of $7.46, representing a significant increase over the $0.40 reported last year; digital sales growth of 10.5% year-over-year, representing 48.5% of sales; and we opened 56 new restaurants, including 45 with the Chipotlane. And I'm delighted to report that Q3 is also off to a strong start.While our trailing 12 month AUV is $2.41 million, the underlying run rate during the quarter is now above the historical peak of $2.5 million AUV. When we started this transformation a little over three years ago, I was often asked whether I thought we could get back to our peak $2.5 million volumes. My answer was, yes, and when we achieve it, we will talk about growth beyond that. So it's a nice achievement for organization to have $2.5 million AUVs again. But more importantly, we have growth strategies that will take us to the next leg of our journey, $3 million AUVs, along with industry-leading returns on invested capital that improve as we continue to add Chipotlanes. Stronger restaurant level economics combined with significant unit growth should allow us to optimize earnings power for many years to come. In fact, we remain confident in our key growth strategies and believe that over the longer term, they will allow us to have 6,000 restaurants in North America with AUVs pushing well beyond $3 million. Yes, the opportunity ahead of us remain significant.So, what are the key strategies that are resonating with guests and allowing us to win today while we create the future? To no one's surprise, they are the same ones we've been talking about for some time, namely: opening and running successful restaurants with a strong culture that provides great food with integrity while delivering exceptional in-restaurant and digital experiences; leveraging digital capabilities to drive productivity and expand access, convenience and engagement; engaging with customers through our loyalty program to drive transactions in frequency; making the brand visible, relevant and loved; and utilizing a disciplined approach to creativity and innovation.Let me now provide a brief update on each of these, starting with our outstanding operations. This is a key focal point, as our business is building on our digital gains along with in-restaurant strength due to a more confident and mobile consumer, as well as the hard work our team has done to build more love for Chipotle. We've continued to make operational adjustments to adapt to the constantly changing environment, which has led us to recovering about 70% of in-restaurant sales thus far, while retaining about 80% of digital sales. It's no secret that running great restaurants requires great people with a terrific culture and we are privileged to have the best of both.Despite the labor challenges in certain parts of the country, the team has remained focused on safety, reliability, excellent culinary and experiences. I'm extremely proud of our world-class employee value proposition. We're providing industry-leading benefits, including a new virtual mental health platform, expanded debt-free degrees, attractive wages that were recently increased to an average of $15 per hour, specialized job training and development and significant career advancement opportunities. And because more than 90% of our restaurant management roles are internal promotes, employees who joined the Chipotle family know they have the opportunity to grow their careers with us. Through investing in our people, we have been able to maintain the stability of our workforce over the last two years.Knowing that our people are the key to our growth, we have been diligent in our recruiting focus since the start of the year. In reimagining the African experience, we're leveraging partnerships that allow us to engage in authentic conversations with prospective candidates and share all the opportunity Chipotle has to offer. Our Coast to Coast Career Day event last week resulted in us hiring thousands of additional team members to meet current demand and accommodate future growth. These efforts have dramatically helped to improve our labor position, and as a result, our restaurants are attracting and retaining excellent employees in a tough labor environment.After visiting several restaurants this past month, I'm encouraged to see more and more guests enjoying their meals in our dining rooms. They order Chipotle, because they can get the exact customized meal they want and with real ingredients faster than anywhere else. As a result, we are committed to teaching, training and validating the five pillars of throughput every day during every shift to ensure we meet our high standards and provide a great guest experience.Over the past few years, Chipotle has evolved to a point where we now have two sizable businesses: in-restaurant as well as our record-breaking digital platform that are helping us become a real food focused digital lifestyle brand. During the second quarter, digital sales grew about 11% year-over-year to $916 million and represented nearly 49% of sales. While COVID has, of course, helped bolster these digital gains, ongoing technology investments and operational excellence have been the critical success factors.Some examples of the digital innovations we've introduced include the addition of our concierge chatbot, Pepper, to the Chipotle app, which has the ability to answer common questions and resolve issues more efficiently, thus freeing up our customer care teams' time to help the guest with more complicated situations. We also gave guests the ability to easily rate their order rate in the app and online at chipotle.com, providing our restaurant operations teams with actionable insights on how to maintain and improve the digital guest experience.Additionally, we have opened a digital-only kitchen, continued expanding our digital drive-thrus with Chipotlanes being the majority of our new restaurant openings, refreshed group ordering and invested in digital internationally by launching the Chipotle app in Canada and implementing our digital assets in Europe. While the results and positive feedback on these innovations show us we're on the right track, we know there is still more to do to enhance the customer experience by expanding access and minimizing friction.Not only are we pleased with the level of digital sales and overall mix, we're also delighted to see that our highest margin transaction, digital pickup orders is gaining traction, and we expect this to continue as we add more Chipotlanes and customers experience the value of this occasion. As I mentioned earlier, we held onto about 80% of our digital gains exiting Q2. This highlights our digital experience's sticky [Phonetic] because it is everything customers love about Chipotle with added convenience. And due to the pandemic, many new consumers were introduced to Chipotle via our digital channels and are now using us for alternative and often incremental occasions.Naturally, we believe our digital sales mix will moderate as capacity restrictions ease and guests feel more comfortable physically ordering and dining in our restaurants. However, we expect absolute digital sales dollars to find a new equilibrium in 2021 and grow from there. We're encouraged to see that so far in July, we continued to hold on to these digital gains even as in-store recovery has strengthened.Moving next to the loyalty program, which is a key enabler of our digital ecosystem and an expanding network that now has more than 23 million members. With this large base of consumers, Chipotle can distribute its own content, more and more effectively, and drive deeper levels of engagement within this community than ever before. We are leveraging our CRM platform to drive brand engagement and send personalized messages to help supercharge our super fans. We have proven that we can influence decisions along a guests buying journey when we offer them the right individually tailored offers at the right time. We're continuously improving our analytics and are consistently able to generate more transactions from light, medium and high frequency users.With the recent announcement of Rewards Exchange, we're optimistic we can continue to build upon our success. The updated functionality provides greater customization and flexibility to redeem rewards and allows guests to earn rewards faster, all of which is expected to improve engagement and drive additional frequency. While we are off to a terrific start, we will continue to invest in the program to take it to the next level and have other enhancements to the program that are expected to be rolled out by year-end.While the loyalty program is used to help drive frequency, our marketing efforts are primarily designed to bring more people to the brand. The combination of reach-based media and a successful frequency driven loyalty program make a great one-two punch that both brings in new users and increases transactions with our existing customers. The marketing team continues to ensure that relevant creative across a wide variety of media channels enables the brands remain visible and live at the intersection of Chipotle and culture. Their agile approach, innovative mindset and relentless commitment to measurement have led to ongoing success. For example, our campaign to support the Quesadilla launch was omnichannel with relevant creative across online video, digital and social media platforms, as well as via traditional TV spots.We also celebrated Team Chipotle, a group of American athletes who love the brand long before they became famous. Their personalized unwrapped videos provide an inside look at Chipotle athlete super fans and what it takes to compete at the highest level. It also highlights the training hard and eating real food with real ingredients go hand in hand.Furthermore, our burritos and Bitcoin campaign around National Burrito Day was one of our most successful social initiatives to date, with billions of impressions for this culturally relevant promotion. These are just a few examples of the brand's work to drive culture, drive difference and ultimately driving a purchase.Another important pillar of our marketing efforts is a steady stream of new menu innovation, with a cadence of on average about two to three per year. Cauliflower rice was a seasonal item that enhance our Lifestyle Bowls and a successful bringing in new guests. We launched Quesadillas as a permanent digital exclusive offering in March, and this menu item continues to perform well as it appears in about 10% of our transactions, and it's also helping attract new customers to Chipotle.Our talented culinary team is far from finished and our pipeline is filled with promise. I'm pleased to report that smoked brisket has been validated by our stage-gate process. In addition, we are also in the early stages of developing other exciting menu items that we will validate using our stage-gate that will bring news and new customers to the brand.To conclude, Chipotle is a unique brand committed to fostering a culture that values and champions our diversity, while leveraging the individual talents of all team members to grow our business, elevate our brand and cultivate a better world. Well trained and supported people preparing safe, delicious food and delivering excellent guest experiences are at the heart of our success. A big thank you to all our hard working employees for making this possible. As a result, I'm convinced more than ever that we have the right team, the right culture and the right strategy to allow Chipotle to be a premier growth company for many years to come.With that, here's Jack to walk you through the financials.John R. Hartung -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Brian. Good afternoon, everyone.We're pleased to report solid second quarter results, with sales growing 38.7% year-over-year to $1.9 billion, as comp sales grew 31.2%. Restaurant level margin of 24.5% was more than double the 12.2% margin from last year, and represents the highest margin since 2015. And earnings per share adjusted for unusual items was $7.46, a significant improvement over last year's adjusted EPS of $0.40. Just like last quarter, the second quarter had unusual expenses related to our 2018 performance share modification related to COVID, restaurant asset impairment and closure costs, legal expenses, as well as transformation costs, which negatively impacted our earnings per share by $0.86, leading to GAAP earnings per share of $6.60.Looking ahead to Q3, while uncertainty still exists with the potential impact of the Delta variant, as well as the pace of the economic recovery, if current sales trends continue, we expect our comp to be in the low to mid double-digit range, which implies a nice sequential acceleration in our geometric two-year stack. This is due to the menu price increase we took in early June, which is holding strong so far, as well as in-restaurant sales continuing to recover. Of course, we'll closely monitoring developments regarding the Delta variant and follow all local protocols to ensure the safety of our restaurant teams and our customers.As Brian mentioned, in June, we increased our average hourly rate to $15, and subsequently took a 3.5% to 4% menu price increase to cover the cost in dollar terms. While average restaurant cash flow remains the same, this lowers margin by about 80 basis points, and increases sales by about $100,000 on the annual basis, so the historic margin algorithm we have discussed is not as relevant going forward. However, we maintain our goal of being able to pass-through approximately 40% of incremental sales to restaurant cash flow, which is an important piece of our earnings growth potential. This is critical as we march toward AUVs of $3 million as higher sales will lead to higher margins and cash-on-cash return -- restaurant returns should increase well above the low to mid 60% range we are seeing today.Let me now go through the key P&L line items. Food costs were 30.4% in Q2, a decrease of nearly 300 basis points from last year. This was due primarily to leverage for menu price increases, as well as lower beef prices, which were partially offset by higher cost associated with new menu items and avocados. Given the current environment, it shouldn't be a surprise to anyone that Q3 is going to be challenged by several industrywide issue, most notably beef and freight costs, as well as staffing shortages at our suppliers. We anticipate these commodity headwinds will negatively impact the quarter by an additional 60 basis points to 80 basis points, essentially offsetting the benefit of menu price increases. This will result in food cost for Q3 being at or slightly above the percentage we saw in Q2. Over the next few quarters, we'll have greater visibility on how much of this inflation is permanent versus transitory, and we can take the appropriate actions as needed to help offset any lasting impacts.Labor costs for the quarter were 24.5%, a decrease of 370 basis points from last year. This decrease was driven primarily by sales leverage, and to a lesser extent, efficiencies related to digital orders, which were partially offset by higher wages that we saw for just one month during the quarter. We expect labor costs to be in the low 26% range during Q3 to reflect a full quarter of wage increase.Other operating costs for the quarter were 15.2%, a decrease of 400 basis points from last year due primarily to sales leverage and lower promotional expenses. Marketing and promo costs for the quarter were 2.4%, a decrease of 260 basis points versus the prior year due to a significant level of free delivery promotions last year. We anticipate marketing expense to be in the mid 2% range in Q3, while the full year 2021 marketing spend is expected to remain about 3% of sales. Overall, other operating costs are expected to be in the mid 15% range for the quarter.G&A for the quarter was $146 million on a GAAP basis, or $119 million on a non-GAAP basis, excluding $23.5 million for the previously mentioned modifications to our 2018 performance shares, $2.1 million for legal expenses and $1.2 million related to transformation expenses. G&A also includes $92 million in underlying G&A, about $22.5 million related to non-cash stock comp and nearly $4.5 million related to higher bonus accruals and payroll taxes and equity vesting and stock option exercises. Looking to Q3, we expect our underlying G&A to be around $96 million as we continue to make investments, primarily in technology to support ongoing growth.We anticipate stock comp will likely be around $25 million in Q3, although this amount could move up or down based on our actual performance. We also expect to recognize around $4 million related to performance-based bonus expenses and employer taxes associated with shares that vest during the quarter, as well as about $1 million related to our all major conference scheduled for Q1 of next year.Our effective tax rate for Q2 was 23.7% on a GAAP basis and 22.4% on a non-GAAP basis. And similar to last quarter, our effective tax rate benefited from option exercises and share vesting at elevated stock prices. For fiscal 2021, we continue to estimate our underlying effective tax rate will be in the 25% to 27% range, so it may vary based on discrete items.Turning now to the balance sheet. We ended Q2 with nearly $1.2 billion in cash, restricted cash and investments, with no debt, along with the $500 million untapped revolver. During the quarter, we opportunistically repurchased $145 million of our stock at an average price of $1,408. We had about $208 million remaining on our share authorization as of June 30th, and expect to continue to prioritize using excess free cash flow to repurchase stock.But as I've said before, the best returns we can generate are by investing in more Chipotlanes. And during Q2, we opened 56 new restaurant, with 45 of these including a Chipotlanes. Despite some external challenges, the development team continues to do an excellent job building new restaurant, as well as developing a robust new unit development pipeline. For the full year, we now expect to be at or slightly above our prior 2021 guidance of 200 new restaurant, with more than 70% including a Chipotlane. As of June 30th, we had a total of 244 Chipotlanes, including eight conversion and six relocations, and they continue to enhance access and convenience forecast while demonstrating superior performance.New Chipotlanes are opening with about 20% higher sales compared to the non-Chipotlanes opened during the same time period. Over the trailing 12 months, Chipotlanes restaurant continues to drive about a 15% higher overall digital sales mix compared to non-Chipotlanes, and it's skewed heavily toward order ahead, our highest margin transaction. In the two-year geometric comp, at the 88 Chipotlane restaurants that have been opened more than a year continues to outperform the non-Chipotlane restaurants from the same period. While [Phonetic] it's early days, Chipotlane conversions and relocations, which are both going through the stage-gate process, are yielding encouraging results. We'll continue to learn and refine our approach to judiciously accelerate our Chipotlane portfolio, whether it'd be an older existing restaurant, strategic relocations of existing restaurant or through new restaurant additions.In closing, I want to reiterate how proud and thankful I am to all Chipotle team members for their tireless efforts. They're helping create value every day for our business, our communities, our shareholders and each other, which is taking our amazing brand to new heights. As one strong team unified by our purpose and values, we remain committed to driving our powerful and durable economic model. Needless to say, my optimism for Chipotle's long-term potential has never been higher.With that, we're happy to take your questions.