  OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. And welcome to the APA first-quarter 2021 earnings announcement webcast conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. Gary Clark, vice president for investor relations. Sir, please go ahead.Gary Clark -- Vice President, Investor Relations Good morning and thank you for joining us on APA Corporation's first-quarter 2021 financial and operational results conference call. We will begin the call with an overview by CEO and president, John Christmann. Steve Riney, executive vice president and CFO, will then provide further color on our results and 2021 outlook. Clay Bretches, executive vice president of operations; and Dave Pursell, executive vice president, development, will also be available on the call to answer questions. Our prepared remarks will be approximately 15 minutes in length with the remainder of the hour allotted for Q&A. In conjunction with yesterday's press release, I hope you have had the opportunity to review our first-quarter financial and operational supplement, which can be found on our investor relations website at investor.apacorp.com. Please note that we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of the differences between these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in the supplemental information provided on our website.This quarter, we have also introduced the term free cash flow, which is defined on Page 20 in the glossary of our supplement. Consistent with previous reporting practices, adjusted production numbers cited in today's call are adjusted to exclude noncontrolling interest in Egypt and Egypt tax barrels. Finally, I'd like to remind everyone that today's discussions will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and reasonable expectations. However, a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today. A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental information on our website. And with that, I'll turn the call over to John. John Christmann -- Chief Executive Officer and President Good morning and thank you for joining us today. In my prepared remarks, I will review APA Corporation's first-quarter results and discuss our 2021 priorities. Despite some significant weather-related challenges, we delivered a strong first quarter. Specifically, our free cash flow generation was over $500 million. We performed well relative to our production and cost expectations, and our safety performance was excellent. Our total adjusted production exceeded guidance as Permian oil and gas volumes benefited from a faster-than-expected recovery from the February storm impacts. This more than offset lower international adjusted volumes resulting from the impact of higher oil prices on our Egypt PSC cost recovery barrels and some extended operational downtime in the North Sea. Upstream capital investment and LOE were considerably below guidance for the quarter. Together with strong price realizations, these factors contributed to an exceptional quarter of free cash flow generation, all of which is being designated for debt reduction. Looking ahead, the full-year guidance we provided in February is unchanged, and we are clearly off to a good start. Turning now to operations in the United States. We reactivated a rig in the Permian Basin, which was previously on standby and picked up one additional rig to drill a four well program in the Austin Chalk play of Texas in Brazos and Washington counties. We placed 22 wells online in the Permian, including two at Alpine High. Roughly 5,000 BOEs per day of lower-margin Permian production remains shut in at the end of the first quarter. We are very pleased with the early results and combined with the recovery from Winter Storm Uri are expecting a significant increase in second and third-quarter production. On Tuesday, we announced an agreement in principle with the Ministry of Petroleum and the Egyptian General Petroleum Company to modernize the terms of our current production sharing contracts, which is the result of a process that has been under way for more than one year. The agreement is comprehensive, and when ratified by parliament, will result in increased activity, capital investment and oil-focused production growth over the next several years. Currently, we are running a five rig program in Egypt and continue to build quality inventory across our expanded acreage footprint. In the first quarter, we had another significant oil discovery at our Hadid prospect, the details of which are in our financial and operational supplement. We are projecting Egypt gross production will bottom in the second quarter and trend up in the second half of the year. Debottlenecking of certain pipelines of facilities and the addition of compression capacity will enable us to connect roughly 35 wells in the second half of the year compared to only 20 wells during the first half. These and other 2021 guidance items do not include any potential changes associated with the pending PSC modernization, which we look forward to updating after the agreement is formally approved. In the North Sea, we have been operating one floating rig and one platform rig crew for just over a year. At this pace, we are capable of delivering annual production in the range of 55,000 to 60,000 BOE per day for the next several years. In 2021, we anticipate North Sea volumes will be a bit lower as we experienced unplanned compressor downtime in the 40s field during the first quarter and will incur extended pipeline downtime and platform maintenance turnarounds during the second and third quarters. Following this, however, we expect a sharp rebound in production during the fourth-quarter 2021. In January, we announced a discovery at our fourth exploration well in Suriname. An appraisal plan for this well, Keskesi is forthcoming. Total has now fully assumed operatorship of Block 58 and is running two rigs in the vicinity of the Sapakara discovery. Both rigs are capable of appraisal and exploration drilling, which provides ultimate flexibility as we execute our programs. We look forward to providing updates as appropriate in the future. Next, I would like to review our priorities for 2021, which we outlined previously on our February conference call. First, we are budgeting conservatively and focusing on free cash flow generation and debt reduction. This year, our reinvestment rate is currently tracking below 50%. Second, we are aggressively managing our cost structure, and we'll continue to do so regardless of the oil price environment. Third, we are preserving optionality within our portfolio, which will enable us to either develop or possibly monetize certain assets at the appropriate time. Fourth, we are advancing the exploration and appraisal programs in Suriname and are now beginning to benefit from our joint venture carry agreement, which is a very efficient funding source for our differential long-term opportunity in Block 58. Fifth, we are continuing to focus on value creation through organic exploration. We recently announced the hiring of Tracey Henderson to lead our exploration team, which concludes an extensive search that began prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Tracey's experience and expertise are a great fit for the existing APA portfolio and we look forward to her leadership on future exploration strategy and ventures. And lastly, we are advancing ESG initiatives that are relevant, impactful and core to our business. Broadly defined these fall into three areas of emphasis: air, water, and communities and people. In 2021, we have established goals that address routine flaring, freshwater consumption and diversity and inclusion programs. These goals are linked to the annual incentive compensation of not just management, but all employees. We made excellent progress in each of these areas during the first quarter and I look forward to discussing them further as we progress these efforts through the year. In closing, I would like to thank all of our employees across the globe for their hard work in the first quarter. And in particular, our field personnel and contractors on the front lines that did an excellent job of safely navigating global pandemic protocols as well as some very extreme weather events. During the historic freeze in Texas, our teams worked around the clock to maintain and restore the hydrocarbon production systems that are vitally important to ensuring the safety and well-being of people and communities during events such as this. And with that, I will turn the call over to Steve Riney, who will provide additional details on the first quarter and our 2021 outlook.Steve Riney -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, John. As noted in our news release issued yesterday, under generally accepted accounting principles, APA Corporation reported first-quarter 2021 consolidated net income of $388 million or $1.02 per diluted common share. These results include items that are outside of core earnings, the most significant of which is a $43 million valuation allowance adjustment for deferred taxes in the quarter. Excluding this and other smaller items, the adjusted net income was $346 million or $0.91 per share. We had a very good first quarter with most financial results being in line or better than our previous guidance. Notable exceptions were North Sea production, which John addressed, and G&A expense, which was $83 million. While underlying spend was in line with our guidance of around $75 million, additional charges were recognized for the mark-to-market impact on certain stock compensation programs. First-quarter results were significantly influenced by U.S. natural gas pricing volatility associated with Winter Storm Uri. The impacts of the storm appear in several places on the income statement. So let me take you through most of the significant items. Since it determines the reporting of results, I'll first remind everyone of how we handle Permian Basin gas production. We sell all of our gas production in basin, and then manage our long-haul transport obligations separately. We optimize those obligations through the purchase, transport and sale of gas from various receipt points in the Permian Basin and in the Gulf Coast areas. Our common practice as we contract for the purchase and sale of gas is to maintain a relatively balanced exposure between gas daily and first-of-month pricing. As the end of January approach, we had a portfolio of purchase and sales contracts that were heavily skewed to February first-of-month pricing. As we commonly do when this is the case, we use financial contracts to rebalance that exposure closer to 50-50. So given the unusually high gas price spike that occurred in mid-February, this impacted first-quarter reporting of results in three ways: first, our underlying sales contracts for produced gas determine the reporting of revenue and realizations. Since approximately half of our underlying sales contracts for February production were at gas daily pricing You will see a significant increase in both natural gas revenues on the income statement and in the average realized price for U.S. gas for the quarter. Second, our underlying contracts also determine the reporting of revenues and costs associated with our activities to purchase, transport and sell gas to fulfill our transportation obligations. The results of these activities appear in the lines entitled, purchased oil and gas sales and purchased oil and gas costs on our P&L. Combined, we incurred a loss of $54 million on that activity in the first quarter, which includes the cost of the transport and the fuel associated with that transport. In a normal quarter, given current differentials, we would expect this loss to be in the $25 million to $35 million range. For the first quarter, this loss was compounded by a volume imbalance in our underlying purchase and sale contracts, which resulted in more gas purchased at the higher February daily prices and more sales at the lower first-of-month pricing. Finally, since we used the financial swap to rebalance our underlying contract portfolio, a good portion of the price spike benefit appears in the $158 million derivative instrument gain on the income statement. If our underlying contract portfolio had been more balanced in the first place, we would not have used the derivative contract, and we would not have this gain. Instead, we would have reported higher gas revenues and a lower loss on sales of purchased gas. I know I went through that quickly, and it can be confusing. If you have further questions, please call Gary's team and they can take you through it in further detail. Free cash flow was also strong in the first quarter, exceeding $500 million. That cash is being used for debt reduction, initially, through the pay down of our revolver. Excluding the consolidated effects of Altus Midstream, we reduced net debt by $339 million in the quarter, mostly through the retention of cash. If the current price environment holds up, we anticipate at least $1 billion of net debt reduction in 2021. Turning now to some additional comments around our 2021 outlook. Our full-year 2021 production, capital, LOE and G&A guidance all remain unchanged. Assuming the recently announced PSC modernization in Egypt proceeds on course, we anticipate adding some capital activity in Egypt for the second half of 2021. We will update our guidance for Egypt as we proceed through that approval process. We have also expanded our guidance to include the anticipated effects of purchasing and selling gas in the U.S. to fulfill our transport obligations, which I discussed previously. Lastly, for the remainder of the year, we expect our U.S. natural gas realizations will closely approximate Waha and El Paso Permian pricing. You will find all of our current guidance items in the financial and operational supplement. In closing, we look forward to a very strong year of free cash flow generation of at least $1 billion. This should take us a good bit of the way toward our previously mentioned leverage target of around 1.5 times debt-to-EBITDA under a mid-cycle pricing scenario. You should understand, however, that our more relevant objective is to return to investment-grade credit status. To that end, we will continue to budget conservatively, focus on costs, free cash flow generation and debt reduction and maintain close contact with the rating agencies to ensure that we are taking the appropriate steps to achieve that goal in a timely manner. And with that, I will turn the call over to the operator for Q&A. 