  OperatorGood morning. My name is Abigail, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Royal Caribbean Group's business update and first quarter 2022 earnings call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to introduce Michael McCarthy, vice president of investor relations. Mr. McCarthy, the floor is yours.Michael McCarthy -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for our business update and  first quarter 2022 earnings call. Joining me here in Miami are Jason Liberty, our chief executive officer; Naftali Holtz, our chief financial officer; and Michael Bayley, president and CEO of Royal Caribbean International. Before we get started, I would like to note that we will be making forward-looking statements during this call. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to our earnings release issued this morning, as well as our filings with the SEC for a description of these factors. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as circumstances change. Also, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are adjusted, as defined in a reconciliation of all non-GAAP items can be found on our website and in our earnings release available at www.rclinvestor.com.Jason will begin the call by providing a strategic overview and update on the business. Naftali will follow with a recap of our first quarter results and an update on our latest actions and on the current booking environment. We will then open the call for your questions. With that, I'm pleased to turn the call over to Jason. Jason Liberty -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Michael. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Before jumping in and talking about the exciting things happening in our business, I would like to express our deep thoughts and prayers to our 2,000-plus Ukrainian Royal Caribbean Group family members and to the citizens of Ukraine, who continue to be affected by this tragic war. We, as always, remain focused on the safety and well-being of our employees and continue to provide them with support services and financial assistance during this time of incredible hardship. We are all praying and hoping for a peaceful resolution soonest. Now, moving on to the business. Our teams have done an exceptional job getting our fleet back into service so that we can continue our mission of delivering the best vacation experiences in a responsible way. As of today, 95% of our fleet capacity has returned to service. It's incredible to think that our journey to full fleet operations will be complete in less than eight weeks when our 63rd ship, Celebrity Infinity, welcomes guests for the first time since March of 2020. Since we resumed operations, we have delivered memorable vacation experiences to over two million guests worldwide, while earning record high guest satisfaction scores. Additionally, outside of China, the vast majority of our destinations and markets are back online. I want to thank our teams, both ship and shore, for delivering on our mission so successfully. During the first quarter, we managed through the challenges brought on by the omicron variant that resulted in the cancellation of 57 sailings in Q1. We moderated our load factors in January and February and softened demand for future voyages. We have now sailed through these operational and short-term demand challenges caused by the variants. Over the past 60 days, demand has materially surpassed both pre-omicron and 2019 levels.

 



 Load factors improved throughout the first quarter and we finished the month of March at a load factor of 68%. We expect our load factors to continue to build, averaging between 75% and 80% in the second quarter, and reaching triple digits by the end of the year. We continue to be thoughtful about the build of our business, being mindful of maintaining price integrity, taking advantage of high onboard spenders and, as always, focusing on the health and safety of our guests and crew. Now, moving to the demand and operating environment. We continue to see strong demand for leisure travel and cruising. The robust secular trend of experiences over things that propelled our business in the past years is now recovering toward pre-COVID levels. Consumers are now reengaging with the world, and as a result, spending on travel in 2022 is set to outpace pre-pandemic levels with consumers planning to travel more frequently. Cruise consideration is the highest it has been in two years and nearing pre-pandemic levels with the most significant recovery among those new to cruising. Consumers are in a healthy financial position strong labor markets, wage growth, and record cash savings, $4 trillion in the U.S., support spend on vacation experiences. We are watching the high inflationary environment but so far we had not seen an impact on consumer behaviors or willingness to spend on travel in cruise vacations. Strong demand for cruise experiences continue to translate into robust onboard revenue performance for us across all categories from casino, beverage and shore excursions to Internet, retail and spa. As we mentioned in recent quarters, our investment in a new pre-cruise planning system allows guests to better plan and book their onboard experiences. As a result, we continue to see increased penetration of pre-cruise purchases, which is leading to significantly higher total spend per guest. We remain focused on continuing to innovate the vacation experience we offer. We are strategically investing in our future to maintain our strong competitive advantage, setting the foundation for a strong recovery and long-term profitable growth. On our last earnings call, we discussed our expectations for a delayed wave period. And while it started a few weeks later than we originally expected, it is what we are seeing now. Bookings improved each week during the first quarter as the impact from omicron faded. For the past eight weeks, bookings have been meaningfully higher than 2019 with particular strength in North American itineraries. Our largest brand, Royal Caribbean International, set two new records in March with the largest single booking day and the highest booking week in the brand's 53-year history. We have also experienced some headwinds related to the impact from the ongoing conflict in Ukraine. Itineraries initially planned to visit Russia represent only 2% of our overall capacity and close to 10% of our European capacity. In early March, we decided to cancel calls to Russian ports, including St. Petersburg, and substituted those itineraries with other highly desirable destinations. Naturally, we saw a short-term increase in cancellations and booking hesitancy put for Baltic Sea itineraries combined with some softness in overall European demand. After several weeks of softer trends, booking volumes improved and are now above 2019 levels. However, the impact from the slowdown during a key booking period is definitely weighing on our load factors for our European sailings. While there are some headwinds in Europe, our North American-based itineraries, which account for over 70% of our capacity this year, have been trending much better with recent bookings more than 40% ahead of 2019 levels. We are also seeing an increased volume of close-in bookings as consumers seem to be making their vacation decisions closer to their sailing date. This contributed to better-than-expected load factors in March despite the impact of the omicron variant earlier this year. We continue to build on the demand environment for the rest of this year and into 2023. Inflation is impacting businesses across the globe, and we are no exception. As we mentioned in the last few quarters, fuel and food are categories that are most susceptible to inflation for us. The war in the Ukraine and continued supply chain constraints have further heightened those pressures. Our teams have become increasingly adept at navigating these challenges, and we have implemented several strategies to manage cost pressures while delivering the incredible product expected by our guests. On the fuel side, we continue to optimize consumption and have partially hedged rate below market prices, which is mitigating the impact on our fuel costs. We have taken and continue to take numerous actions to reshape our cost structure with a focus on further improving our leading pre-pandemic margins. While these actions are intended to enhance our cost structure and margin profile, we do anticipate that inflationary pressures mainly attributable to fuel and food as well as transitory costs related to our health and safety protocols will weigh on our costs this year. I will now touch upon environmental stewardship. Creating a more sustainable cruise industry is a journey and every day is an opportunity to innovate and improve. Back in 2016, we announced our partnership with the World Wildlife Fund to advance our sustainability performance. This partnership pushed us to set ambitious sustainability goals in three areas: greenhouse gas emissions, sustainable food supply, and destination stewardship. I am proud of the fantastic work achieved by our teams since we first signed the agreement with the WWF and I am pleased to announce that the Royal Caribbean Group has recently signed a new five-year agreement to take our advancements to the next level. I'm also pleased that in the first quarter, we were named one of the world's most ethical companies by Ethisphere. This is the seventh consecutive year our company has been recognized, the only one in the leisure and recreational category. Furthermore, we also earned 100% rating on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation's Corporate Equality Index, which rates corporate policies and practices that relate to LGBTQ+ workplace equality. We are immensely proud of these recognitions that reflect our deep commitment to our employees and our purpose and values. As we continue to focus on completing our return to service, we are charting our course for future growth. Combination of strong secular demand tailwinds, our leading brands, the best cruise ships in the world, our global platform, and the very best people position us exceptionally well for long-term success. It is no secret that our innovative and industry-leading ships are the foundation for creating a great vacation experience. Year to date, we welcomed two new ships to our fleet, Wonder of the Seas, which is the newest, largest and most innovative Oasis class vessel joined Royal Caribbean International. And Celebrity Beyond, the newest, the revolutionary edge-class joined Celebrity Cruises just a few weeks ago. We have a long track record on delivering new and exciting experiences through new ships while achieving premium yields and profits. These ships, along with others that are set to join the fleet in the next few years, will drive differentiated vacation experiences and financial performance. We have more exciting new ships currently on order. Construction is now underway on Royal Caribbean International's sixth Oasis class ship, which will be named Utopia of the Seas. This ship is expected to debut in the spring of 2024. We are excited that Utopia will be the first Oasis-class ship powered by LNG when she launches. Finally, the building of Royal Caribbean International's highly anticipated Icon of the Seas has reached a pivotal milestone of physical construction ahead of its fall 2023 debut. Icon will set sail next year with the latest innovations and with signature features that were reimagined by our teams in bold new ways. Stay tuned for more on that. On the destination front, we continue to make progress on the expansion of perfect day at CocoCay with the addition of Hideaway Beach. Hideaway Beach will make perfect day at CocoCay even more perfect with an entirely new experience expanding capacity to the island. On the technology front, the team has made tremendous strides modernizing our digital infrastructure and capabilities to enhance our commercial engines and the guest experience. Our business model is incredibly strong, and we have a long track record of growing revenue, earnings and cash flow. The pandemic has taught us new ways to operate with agility, but our formula for success remains unchanged. We have the best brands, each of their segments, the most innovative fleet in the industry, exclusive destination experiences like perfect day at CocoCay, a nimble and effective global sourcing footprint, a leading technology platform and most of all, the very best team, both at sea and on land. Despite these challenges at the start of the year and the complex operating environment, we still expect 2022 will be a strong transitional year as we bring the rest of our fleet back up into operations and approach historical occupancy levels and return to a profit in the back half of the year. This will set a strong foundation for our success in 2023 and beyond. With these tools at hand, I'm confident about the recovery trajectory and the future of the Royal Caribbean Group. Our people will always be our most important competitive advantage, and I'd like to thank all of them for everything they do each and every day to deliver on our mission. With that, I will turn the call over to Naftali. Naf?Naftali Holtz -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jason, and good morning, everyone. Let me begin by discussing our results for the first quarter. This morning, we reported an adjusted net loss of $1.2 billion or $4.57 per share for the quarter. During the first quarter, we restarted operations on two additional ships. And as Jason mentioned, we welcomed Wonder of the Seas to the Royal Caribbean fleet. We operated 7.7 million APCDs and carried 800,000 guests. Load factor on our core itineraries in the first quarter was 59%. Earlier in the quarter, our load factor was impacted by about 2% due to temporarily elevated cancellations associated with omicron. Trends, however, improved throughout the quarter, and March sailings exceeded our initial expectations, achieving an average load factor of 68%. We also had multiple sailings in March that operated 100% load factors in the Caribbean. As Jason mentioned, we are seeing consumers make vacation decisions closer to the sailing date, which contributed to the outperformance in March. In Q1, we saw a 4% increase in total revenue per passenger cruise day compared to the first quarter of 2019. Onboard revenue continues to perform well for us. A combination of strong consumer spending and higher pre-cruise purchase penetration is contributing to this favorable trend. Cash flow from operating ships was positive in the first quarter. Operating cash flow significantly improved throughout the quarter and approached a positive inflection point in the month of March, operating cash flow turned positive in April. We are pleased to have reached this important financial milestone and we expect that EBITDA will also turn positive from June forward. Next, I'd like to comment on capacity and load factor expectations over the upcoming period. We plan to restart operations on all remaining ships by the end of June. We plan to operate about 10.3 million APCDs during the second quarter, and we expect load factors of approximately 75% to 80%. Our load factor expectations reflect the higher occupancy we are seeing in the Caribbean and lower expectations for repositioning voyages and early season Europe sailings. We now offer cruises in the vast majority of our key destinations once again. Australia announced the resumption of cruising in April, and our cruises are open for sale. While China remains close to cruising, we are maintaining dialogue with the local authorities regarding our return to service when China opens its borders. We have redeployed ships planned for China to other core markets. We remain optimistic about our ability to capture long-term growth opportunities in that market. Next, I'll provide an update on the demand environment and our 2022 sailings. As Jason noted, we saw consistent improvement in bookings throughout the first quarter. And in the past eight weeks, booking volumes have been meaningfully higher than 2019. In addition, the elevated near-term cancellations experienced early in Q1 that impacted bookings have now normalized to pre-omicron levels. While we are very pleased by the ramp-up in demand, it took a few weeks longer than expected, leading to promotional activity on some itineraries. That being said, we remain focused on maintaining price integrity while maximizing both load factor and overall revenue. Our shipboard revenue APDs are at record levels and are contributing to more overall revenue per guest than ever before. North American-based itinerary have been trending particularly well with load factors building nicely. Regarding our European sailings, we are now seeing improving trends with bookings outpacing 2019 levels. We did, however, lose some ground when the tragic situation in the Ukraine escalated, which is weighing on load factors for higher-yielding summer season in Europe. From a cumulative standpoint, our load factors on sailings in the second half of the year are booked slightly below historical levels with a greater mix of high-yielding suite inventory booked versus inside and outside state rooms. Our booked APDs remain higher than 2019, both including and excluding FCCs, while still early 2023 is booked within historical ranges at record pricing. We expect sequential occupancy improvements each quarter with fleetwide load factors reaching triple digits by the end of the year. Our customer deposit balance as of March 31 was $3.6 billion, an improvement of about $400 million during the quarter. Approximately 27% of our customer deposit balance is related to future cruise credits, which is an improvement from last quarter. To date, 56% of FCCs have been redeemed. As Jason shared, the main impact of the current inflationary environment is on our fuel and food costs. Regarding fuel, we are 55% hedged for 2022 and 25% hedged for 2023 at below market rates. Our proactive hedging efforts help us mitigate the rate impact. We continue to actively manage our fuel consumption, and our investments in technology and systems help us reduce our emission profile and fuel's costs. In addition, the eight new vessels to join our fleet in the last 18 months are 30% to 35% more fuel efficient than older capacity. Fuel is typically just over 10% of our cost basket. So while elevated prices certainly weigh on our cost, we continue to manage consumption and proactively hedge the rate. Like other businesses, we are seeing inflation across the food basket. Our operational and supply chain teams have been navigating these pressures through long-term partnerships and contracts within our diversified supplier base that allow us to opportunistically adjust sourcing strategies as needed. We do anticipate that inflationary pressures and transitory costs related to our healthy return to service and continued safety protocols will weigh on this year's earnings. Shifting to our balance sheet. We ended the quarter with $3.8 billion in liquidity. We have ample liquidity to allow us to continue our recovery trajectory. We're extremely focused on managing and improving the balance sheet. Our plan throughout 2022 is to continue with refinancing debt maturities and high coupon debt issued during the pandemic. In January, investors again demonstrated their support when we accessed the capital markets by issuing $1 billion of senior unsecured notes. Proceeds from the offering have been used to repay principal payments on debt maturing in 2022. February, we arranged for a $3.15 billion backstop facility to provide us flexibility in refinancing debt maturities in June 2023. Lastly, turning to the outlook for 2022. We expect a net loss for the first half of the year and a profit for the second half. We also expect positive EBITDA starting in June. We continue to focus on bringing the fleet back to service, building our load factors and restoring profitability. When our business is fully operational, it generates attractive financial results and significant cash flow. We are pleased with the progress we are making toward the inflection points of profitability as we complete our return and build the future for the Royal Caribbean Group. With that, I will ask our operator to open the call for your questions. 