
OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to the Twitter Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Krista Bessinger, VP, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Krista Bessinger -- Vice President, Investor RelationsHi, everyone. And thanks for joining our Q3 earnings conference call. We have Jack and Ned with us today. We published our Shareholder Letter on our Investor Relations website and with the SEC a couple of hours ago and hope that you've all had a chance to read it. As usual, we'll keep our opening remarks brief so that we can get right to your questions. As a reminder, we will also take questions asked on Twitter, so please Tweet us at @TwitterIR using the $TWTR.During this call, we'll make forward-looking statements including statements about our business outlook, strategies and long-term goals. These comments are based on our plans, predictions and expectations as of today, which may change over time. Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q and upcoming 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC.Also during this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. We've reconciled those to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our Shareholder Letter. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for our GAAP results. And finally, this call in its entirety is being webcast from our Investor Relations website and an audio replay will be available on Twitter and on our website in a few hours.And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Jack.Jack Dorsey -- Chief Executive OfficerHello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. A few highlights from me and Ned before we get to your questions. We had a solid Q3 with strong performance across revenue products and continued audience growth. Revenue was $1.28 billion in Q3. And we continue to see significant ad revenue growth which increased 41% year-over-year this quarter. Average, monetizable DAU increased to $211 million, up 13% of year-over-year, with growth accelerating from an increase of 11% year-over-year in Q2.Before we get deep into the quarter and how we're looking at the rest of the year, as you may have seen, we announced that we agreed to sell MoPub to AppLovin. First, I want to thank the MoPub team for all their hard work and contributions to Twitter, and our customers who put trust in us and the MoPub team for many years.The sales demonstrates our confidence in our core revenue product strategy, allowing us to refocus our energy and resources on our direct response, SMB and commerce roadmaps. The last time we talked, you heard us talk about our intention to build an ecosystem of connected features and services focused on serving 3 core jobs; news, discussion, and helping people get paid. In Q3, we launched products across all of these categories, including Ticketed Spaces, Tips, Super Follows, and narrow casting with communities. We also had the ability to pay your favorite creators using a variety of payment methods, including for the first-time Bitcoin.We continue to upgrade our machine learning systems as well, which are improving personalization throughout the product. We're just getting started, but already Twitter feels more responsive and intuitive, lots more to come here. As we approach the end of the year, we feel confident about where we're headed. Overall, we're on course to leave 2021, a more focused company with clear priorities.And with that, I'll pass it over to Ned.Ned Segal -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jack. Q3 was a solid quarter driven by focus and execution. Total revenue grew 37% year-over-year at the high end of our guidance. mDAU grew 13% year-over-year to $211 million, with US mDAU essentially flat quarter-over-quarter, and up 4% year-over-year, both in line with our expectations. Due to the unusual comps from the pandemic surge last year, coupled with typical seasonality. We expect total mDAU in Q4 to grow at or above the Q3 rate of 13% on a year-over-year basis. And we continue to believe the low point for year-over-year mDAU growth, in 2021 was back up Q2 due to those tough comps.The impact of COVID remains fragmented across the world, and we believe consumer behavior has yet to normalize. Despite these uncertainties, we remain optimistic given our healthy top of funnel, our conversion rate and our product roadmap, which allow us to serve more and more people every day. Let me share some of the highlights from the Olympics on our DR Roadmap from Q3. The Olympics were a strong event for us. Olympics-related tweets of video content reviewed more than 1 billion times on Twitter.There were 76 billion tweet impressions related to the Olympics. And 12 of the 14 official Olympics sponsors advertised on Twitter. Our shift to direct response ads also made great strides. For math advertisers, we launched an updated learning period model that delivers more consistent campaign performance. And for website clicks, we introduced a multi destination CareSouth, to enable advertisers to market and drive traffic to multiple products inside the same ad on Twitter.These are just a few examples of our accelerated pace of testing and rolling out new features, yet we won't stop there when it comes to increasing focus on our most critical work. As Jack mentioned earlier, and although it happened in October, it's worth spending a moment on the announced sale of MoPub. The sale of MoPub positions us to reallocate resources and accelerate product development by investing more and the team's focused on better monetizing our website and apps.The sale is expected to close in Q1, and while the associated product engineering and go-to-market teams are largely expected to shift to DR, SMB and commerce upon closing, it will take time for their work to deliver results. We do not expect to recoup the full revenue loss associated with the sale of MoPub in 2022. Which is estimated to be between $200 million and $250 million.Despite some expected 2022 revenue loss, there are no changes to our goal of generating $7.5 billion or more of annual revenue in 2023, with our increased focus and additional resources working on increasing our market share. And the $150 billion and growing addressable market for ads on Twitter. I've also noticed there has been a lot of focus more broadly on the impact of the supply chain on the economy in general and advertising in particular. I'm pleased to share that are launching connect value proposition, continues to resonate with advertisers across the economy.Both well, more than half of our total ad revenue year-to-date, associated with services and digital goods. Let me also spend a moment on ATT. We continue to see opportunities around personalization on Twitter as we better leverage our unique signal to improve people's experienced. And show them more effective Ads across both brand and direct response. The revenue impact we experienced from ATT in Q3 increased on a sequential basis, but remains modest. The impact of ATT is likely to vary across ad platforms given the unique mix of ad formats, signal, and remediations on each, as well as other factors.The mitigations we've put in place and the speed with which we've adopted new standards, like SKAdNetwork and resulting changes across our technical stack have contributed to minimizing the impact to us. Since the launch of ATT April, we've invested in supporting SKAdNetwork, opening up 30% plus more inventory and scale on iOS, and launched support for view through attribution and FK campaign ID management features in the TwitterAds Manager. It's still too early for Twitter to assess the long-term impact of Apple's privacy-related iOS changes, but the Q3 revenue impact was lower than expected, and we've incorporated an ongoing modest impact into our Q4 guidance. We've seen our revenue product development, both related to and distinct from ATT, improve the performance of our products, and we expect that to continue. Let me quickly turn to a couple of points regarding our outlook. We continue to expect total revenue to grow faster than expenses in 2021, excluding the litigation settlement announced in Q3.And we expect to continue our investment posture as we enter next year. We'll talk more about 2022 in February. but let me provide a little more context here. Our 30% plus headcount growth in 2021 with annual metric increases and other investments we've made in 2021, including our new data center, will flow into annual expenses for 2022, likely resulting in a mid-20% increase in total expenses next year prior to hiring any more people or additional investments during 2022.We're pleased with our Q3 results and we're excited about the momentum we bring with us into Q4. Let's go to questions.