
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Texas Instruments Q3 2021 Earnings Release Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Dave Pahl. Please go ahead.Dave Pahl -- Head of Investor Relations and Vice President

 



Good afternoon, and thank you for joining our third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. For any of you, who missed the release, you can find it on our website at ti.com/ir. This call is being broadcast live over the web and can be accessed through our website. A replay will be available through the web. This call will include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause TI's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. We encourage you to review the notice regarding forward-looking statements contained in the earnings release published today as well as TI's most recent SEC filings for a more complete description.Our Chief Financial Officer, Rafael Lizardi is with me today, and we'll provide the following updates. First, I'll start with a quick overview of the quarter. Next, I'll provide insight into third quarter revenue results with some details of what we're seeing in respect to the customers and markets, and I'll also provide details by end market, including some sequential performance as we have the last few quarters. As sequential data begins to be less insightful, we'll move back to reporting only year-over-year per our normal practice. And lastly, Rafael will cover the financial results, an update of our capacity expansion plans and our guidance for fourth quarter of 2021.Starting with a quick overview of the quarter. Revenue in the quarter was $4.6 billion, an increase of 1% sequentially and 22% year-over-year, driven by demand in industrial, automotive and personal electronics. On a sequential basis, Analog grew 2% and Embedded Processing declined 5%. On a year-over-year basis, Analog revenue grew 24% and Embedded Processing grew 13%. Our Other segment grew 19% from the year ago quarter.Now let me comment on the current environment to provide some context of what we're seeing with our customers and markets. Overall, the quarter came in generally as we expected across product segments and markets and geographies. Lead times for the majority of our products remained stable, but hot spots continued to exist. However, customers are becoming more selective in their expedite requests, focusing on products that complete a matched set rather than expediting products across the board. This behavior is not specific to any product family, end market or geography.

 



Discussions with customers confirm a high level interest and our commitment to expanding our internal manufacturing capacity roadmap, including 300-millimeter wafer fabs, RFAB2 and Lehi or what we call LFAB, and the associated assembly/test expansions. These investments to strengthen our manufacturing and technology competitive advantage will provide lower cost and greater control of our supply chain. And while there is a growing recognition that the near-term supply demand imbalance will end at some point, the secular growth of semiconductor content per system will continue to grow and this requires a robust manufacturing capacity roadmap for 2025 and beyond.Moving on, I'll provide some insight into our third quarter revenue by end market. First, the industrial market was down mid-single-digits sequentially and up about 40% from a year ago. The changes both sequentially and from the year ago were generally consistent across the diverse set of sectors. The automotive market again grew sequentially and was up more than 20% from the year ago. When comparing to pre-pandemic levels of Q4 2019, revenue is up almost 30%. Personal electronics grew low-double-digits sequentially and was up low-double-digits compared to a year ago. The strength sequentially and a year ago was due to mobile phones, PCs notebooks and tablets. Next, communications equipment was down mid-single-digits sequentially and was down upper-teens from a year ago. Enterprise systems grew sequentially and from the year ago quarter.Rafael will now review profitability, capital management and our outlook.Rafael R. Lizardi -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Finance and Operations

 



Thanks, Dave, and good afternoon, everyone. As Dave mentioned, third quarter revenue was $4.6 billion, up 22% from a year ago. Gross profit in the quarter was $3.2 billion or 68% of revenue. From a year ago, gross profit margin increased 360 basis points. Operating expenses in the quarter were $800 million, up 1% from a year ago and about as expected. On a trailing 12-month basis, operating expenses were 18% of revenue. Over the last 12 months, we have invested $1.6 billion in R&D. Acquisition charges and non-cash expense were $47 million in the third quarter and will go to zero beginning in fourth quarter of 2021. Operating profit was $2.3 billion in the quarter or 50% of revenue. Operating profit was up 43% from the year ago quarter. Net income in the third quarter was $1.9 billion or $2.07 per share.Let me now comment on our capital management results, starting with our cash generation. Cash flow from operations was $2.4 billion in the quarter. Capital expenditures were $486 million in the quarter. Free cash flow on a trailing 12-month basis was $7.1 billion. In September, we announced we would increase our dividend by 13% effective this month, marking our 18th consecutive year of dividend increases. In the quarter, we paid $942 million in dividends and repurchased $139 million of our stock. In total, we have returned $4.2 billion in the past 12 months. Over the same period, our dividend represented 53% of free cash flow, underscoring its sustainability.Our balance sheet remained strong with $9.8 billion of cash and short-term investments at the end of the third quarter. In the quarter, we issued $1.5 billion of debt in three tranches of $500 million each. The first has a coupon of 1.125%, which is due in five years; the second, 1.9% due in 10 years; and the last, a 2.7% due in 30 years. This resulted in total debt of $7.8 billion with a weighted average coupon of 2.6%.Regarding inventory, TI inventory dollars were up $7 million from the prior quarter and days were 112, up one day sequentially, but still below desired levels. For the fourth quarter, we expect TI revenue in the range of $4.22 billion to $4.58 billion and earnings per share to be in the range of $1.83 to $2.07. The Lehi acquisition closed last Friday, but the costs are not included in our guidance. We will provide those details when we report fourth quarter results. Just as a reminder, the purchase price was about $900 million, and we expect ongoing costs of about $75 million per quarter through 2022.We continue to expect our annual operating tax rate for 2021 to be about 14% and our effective tax rate to be about 13%. As you are looking at your models for 2022, without any changes to tax law, we would expect our annual operating and effective tax rates to remain about what they are this year, with a similar quarterly profile of discrete tax benefits that are higher in the first quarter compared to the rest of the year.In closing, we continue to invest to strengthen our competitive advantages and in making our business stronger. Our investments in our long-term roadmap for capacity expansion both in LFAB and RFAB2 are great examples. As a reminder, our capex will be higher on an absolute level as well as a percentage of revenue as we strengthen this advantage. We are working through detailed plans of our long-term roadmap and we'll have specifics of timing and capex spending in our Capital Management call in February. We continue to believe owning and controlling our supply chain will be of growing strategic importance.With that, let me turn it back to Dave.Dave Pahl -- Head of Investor Relations and Vice PresidentThanks, Rafael. Operator, you can now open the lines up for questions. In order to provide as many of you as possible an opportunity to ask a question, please limit yourself to a single question. After our response, we'll provide you an opportunity for an additional follow-up. Operator?