
OperatorThank you for standing by, and welcome to Evergy's Third Quarter Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions].I would now like to hand the conference over to your host, Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasurer, Lori Wright. Please go ahead.Lori Wright -- Vice President of Corporate Planning, Investor Relations and Treasurer

 



Thank you, Latif. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Evergy's third quarter call. Thank you for joining us this morning. Today's discussion will include forward-looking information. Slide two and the disclosure in our SEC filings containing list of some of the factors that could cause future results to differ materially from our expectations and include additional information on non-GAAP financial measures. The release is issued this morning, along with today's webcast slides and supplemental financial information for the quarter are available on the main page of our website at investors.evergy.com.On the call today, we have David Campbell, Evergy's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Kirk Andrews, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. David will cover our third quarter highlights, recap our recent Investor Day and provide an update on our near-term resource plan. Kirk will cover in more detail the third quarter results, the latest on sales and customer information and our financial outlook for the remainder of the year. Other members of management are with us and will be available during the question-and-answer portion of the call.I will now turn the call over to David.David Campbell -- President, Chief Executive Officer & Director

 



Thank you, Lori, and good morning, everyone. I'll begin on Slide five of our presentation. This morning, we reported third quarter adjusted earnings of $1.98 per share compared to $1.73 per share a year ago equal to a 14% increase. On a period-over-period basis, these results were driven primarily by favorable weather, higher transmission margin, higher other income and lower income taxes, partially offset by a decline in weather-normalized demand. For year-to-date September 30, adjusted earnings were $3.38 per share compared to $2.82 per share a year ago, equal to a 20% increase. As with the quarter, favorable weather is the most significant driver. With these strong results, we are raising and narrowing our adjusted EPS guidance range to $3.50 to $3.60 per share, an increase from $3.20 to $3.40 per share.I commend and thank our team's ability to execute and focus on providing safe and reliable electric service to our customers throughout the first nine months of the year, notwithstanding the lingering pandemic impacts and a significant winter weather event in February. Kirk will detail the drivers of our financial performance that resulted in the upside guidance revision. In addition, we are affirming our 2022 adjusted EPS guidance of $3.43 to $3.63 as well as our targeted annual adjusted EPS growth target of 6% to 8% through 2025, as we laid out during our Investor Day. Lastly, this morning, we also announced a 7% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.5725 per share or $2.29 per share on an annualized basis. This increase is consistent with our growth trajectory and reflects our Board's confidence in the execution of our plan.Moving on to Slide six, I'll provide a brief recap of the business plan highlights from our recent Investor Day. As part of the event, we rebased and extended our key targets through 2025. Our five-year capital investments are estimated to be $10.4 billion through 2025, of which nearly $1.5 billion is for renewables projects. This spending plan drives our projected rate base growth of 5% to 6% annually over that same time period. We also extended our target for cost efficiencies and added nearly $20 million of savings in 2025, increasing our total estimated annual O&M savings from our 2018 base year to $345 million annually in 2025.This represents more than a 25% overall decline. Building on the strong performance and realized cost savings achieved over the last three years, this trajectory implies a 1% to 2% annualized cost productivity gain through the five-year forecast period. The planned beneficial infrastructure investment and additional O&M savings enabled us to extend our top-tier 6% to 8% annual growth rate and adjusted earnings per share through 2025. We're able to fund this plan with significant cash flow and modest incremental debt, allowing us to maintain our strong balance sheet and credit metrics with no planned incremental equity through 2025.

 



Lastly, we showcased our strong ESG profile, including our significant progress in clean energy and changing our generation mix. In 2020, 50% of our energy was emissions free and we achieved a 51% reduction in Evergy's CO2 emissions relative to 2005 levels. We stack up well relative to our Midwest peers in terms of both clean energy delivered to our customers and reduction in carbon emissions. We have ambitious, but achievable goals as we advance toward our target of net zero carbon by 2045.Slide seven outlines our resource plan through 2026. To further lower energy cost for customers and reduce emissions, we plan to add more than 1,300 megawatts of new renewables split between over 500 megawatts of solar and 800 megawatts of wind through a series of yearly additions. We also plan to retire coal operations at our plant in Lawrence, Kansas. In September, we initiated a regulatory proceeding in Kansas called predetermination, seeking approval in advance for the Lawrence coal retirement and for the first 190 megawatts of solar generation. We expect to have an order in this proceeding by mid-2022.In October, we also issued a request for proposal for 800 megawatts of wind generation projects we have sequenced across 2024 and 2025 for the benefit of Kansas and Missouri customers. Bids are due later this month, and we plan to select a short list of projects before the end of the year. We are targeting having negotiations completed by mid-2022. In parallel, we will continue to evaluate potential opportunities to buy in and repower existing power purchase agreements as initial production tax credits expire.Before handing it over to Kirk, I'll wrap up on Slide eight, which summarizes the Evergy value proposition. The left-hand side of the page covers what we're focused on and how we plan to execute our strategy, which I discussed in depth during our Investor Day. The core tenets of our strategy are to advance affordability, reliability and sustainability through a relentless focus on our customers, supported by stakeholder and collaboration, sustainable investment and financial and operational excellence. The right-hand side of Slide eight features what we believe are particularly attractive and distinctive features for our company.First, we are an all-electric regulated utility with significant benefits delivered since the merger and further opportunities that we will capture through continuous improvement, performance management and sustained consistent execution. Second, we have significant opportunities ahead for the ongoing transition of our generation portfolio. And we can do so cost effectively given that we'll be replacing coal with low-cost renewables, which is a win-win for affordability and sustainability. Third, we are geographically advantaged given our proximity to world-class wind resources in Kansas. We are well positioned to participate in the renewables and transmission build-out that will occur as part of the national transition to a clean energy economy.And finally, we are targeting a high-performing 6% to 8% annual growth rate and adjusted earnings per share through 2025 at the top rank with our peers. We are very excited about the opportunities for our company, and we are deeply committed to the sustained effort required to deliver against our high performance objectives.I will now turn the call over to Kirk.Kirkland Andrews -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThanks, David, and good morning, everyone. I'll start with results for the quarter on Slide 10. For the third quarter of 2021, Evergy delivered adjusted earnings of $455 million or $1.98 per share compared to $393 million or $1.73 per share in the third quarter of 2020. The 14% increase in third quarter adjusted EPS was driven by the following items as shown on the chart from left to right.First, there were significantly more cooling degree days this past quarter as compared to the third quarter of 2020, resulting in $0.20 of favorable contribution from weather. Adjusting for milder than normal weather experienced in the third quarter of 2020, the third quarter of this year saw $0.13 of EPS versus normal weather assumed in our original plan. The strong favorable weather impact this quarter was partially offset by a 1.2% decline in weather-normalized demand or approximately $0.06 per share. Higher transmission revenue resulting from our ongoing investments to enhance our transmission infrastructure drove about $0.06 per share.Other income increased $0.04 per share, driven by higher investment earnings from some of our investments in early stage energy solution companies. Income tax-related items, which include the impact of Kansas income tax rate exemption effective this year and higher amortization of excess deferred income taxes, partially offset by the timing of tax credit recognition to maintain our effective income tax rate for the year drove a net increase of $0.04 per share. And finally, other items, which consist primarily of higher depreciation and amortization and property tax expense as well as the impact of shares issued to BlueScape in April were partially offset by lower O&M, which, when combined, represent a net $0.03 decrease.I'll turn next to year-to-date results, which you'll find on Slide 11. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, adjusted earnings were $775 million or $3.38 per share compared to $642 million or $2.82 per share for the same period last year. Again, moving from left to right on the slide, our year-to-date adjusted EPS drivers versus 2020 include the following: favorable weather from the first half of the year when combined with the warm weather in the third quarter contributed $0.25 year-to-date. When compared to normal weather assumed in our original 2021 plan, weather was $0.18 favorable. And although weather-normalized demand increased about 1% year-to-date, the margin impact of higher commercial and industrial sales was more than offset by an estimated 2% decline in residential sales, resulting in about $0.01 of lower margin versus the first nine months of 2020.As expected, higher transmission revenues driven by our FERC transmission investments resulted in a $0.12 increase. Other income was also $0.12 higher, driven primarily by an increase in investment earnings due to a realized gain from the monetization of an investment in the first half of the year combined with investment gains in the third quarter as well as higher AFUDC. The impact from the Kansas income tax exemption and higher amortization of excess deferred income taxes contributed $0.11 of favorability year-to-date. And finally, higher depreciation and amortization, property taxes and a slight increase in share count were partially offset by lower O&M and interest expense, leading to a net decrease of $0.03 per share.Turning next to Slide 12. I'll provide a brief update on recent sales and customer trends. Weather-normalized retail sales decreased 1.2% during the third quarter compared to last year. This was primarily driven by lower residential sales, down 3% compared to last year, with fewer customers working from home compared to 2020. Weather normalized commercial sales were up slightly, reflecting the slow, steady return to normal. Industrial sales were flat with some puts and takes from multiple sectors. The Ford plant in our jurisdiction is still experiencing headwinds from chip shortages, which have slowed down production, and in turn electricity usage.On the positive side, extensive oil refineries and pipelines in our jurisdictions are seeing a surge in usage as the commodity market was driven higher in demand for their product. The pandemic recovery continues to be slower than we originally planned and year-to-date weather-normalized demand has only increased about 1% compared to our original full year expectations of around 2%. And as I mentioned during our Investor Day in September, we adjusted our demand expectations for the balance of 2021, as likely due to the impact of the resurgence of COVID-19 over the summer, we now expect some of the recovery to more normal demand and mix to take place in 2022.Turning next to Slide 13. I'll provide greater details on the drivers of our increased and narrowed guidance range for 2021. Starting with our previous guidance range, the left of the slide and moving again from left to right. Due to the shift in expected demand recovery from 2021 to 2022, the earnings contribution of weather-normalized sales is about $0.14 per share lower versus our original expectations. However, favorable weather through the first three quarters, which as I mentioned earlier, we estimate contributed $0.18, has more than offset the delay in normalized demand recovery.The net of these two items is a positive $0.04 in total sales compared to our original plan. Continuing across the chart, the remaining positive drivers of our revised guidance include: $0.09 from income tax benefits driven by higher excess deferred income tax amortization, $0.07 from higher AFUDC and lower interest expense. And finally, our revised guidance includes the impact of the amount by which we expect our nonregulated businesses to exceed our original 2021 plan.Specifically, Evergy Ventures, the entity through which we make investments in early stage energy solution companies as well as our power marketing business are on track to contribute greater than normal earnings in 2021, partially offset by the timing and phasing of certain costs, resulting in a net increase of $0.05 versus our prior guidance. Together, these items lead to our revised 2021 adjusted EPS guidance of $3.50 to $3.60 per share. Of note, although as I mentioned, our Evergy Ventures business outperformance is one of our contributing factors to our revised guidance. This outperformance is primarily based on year-to-date results.In October, an equity investment in which we own a minority state, went public through an acquisition by a special purpose acquisition company, or SPAC, and Evergy received shares in the public company at closing subject to a lockup. As a result, we expect to record an unrealized gain on this investment in the fourth quarter. Although this fourth quarter item is not yet reflected in our revised guidance, we expect this impact to be positive. And depending upon the fair value of accounting for the investment, it could cause our results for the year to even exceed our updated guidance range.However, we consider any potential gain from this investment, which we expect to monetize in 2022 when the lockup expires, the additional nonrecurring earnings for the year relative to our ongoing expectations for this part of our business. Lastly, we also recognize our updated 2021 guidance implies a lower fourth quarter compared to last year. So on the right-hand side of the slide, we've included the key drivers which will impact the expected year-over-year fourth quarter results. These drivers include the following: first, given our strong year-to-date and expected earnings, we've made a few changes in the timing and phasing of certain cost items, which are expected to drive about $0.06 per share in the quarter.Second, although we've seen favorable bad debt expense in 2021, largely due to lower write-offs resulting from the extended moratorium on disconnections, which expired in May, we've now begun to see write-offs increase and believe this temporary trend is likely to continue, resulting in the realization of write-offs later in the year than we originally expected. As a result, we expect to make a change in our receivable reserve calculation in the fourth quarter, which will lead to about $0.03 of additional bad debt expense. These two factors combined with other items, including the expiry of certain tax credits in 2021, lead to the implied difference in expected fourth quarter earnings versus 2020.And finally, turning to our affirmed 2022 adjusted EPS guidance on Slide 14. We've updated the bridge from our revised 2021 adjusted EPS guidance range of $3.50 to $3.60 to our 2022 adjusted EPS guidance range of $3.43 to $3.63. Starting on the left-hand side of the slide with our 2021 guidance, we normalized $0.18 of favorable weather and a roughly $0.05 of earnings primarily from power marketing in Evergy Ventures. Although we expect these businesses to continue to contribute earnings going forward, this adjustment is merely associated with the outperformance in 2021, leaving their expected run rate contribution in our 2022 guidance.After adjusting for these items, the drivers of our 2022 guidance midpoint are largely unchanged from the walk we provided on Investor Day and include $0.12 of increased retail demand, about 2/3 of which reflects the realization of more normal demand in 2022, which we originally expected to occur in this year. And this shift is due to the observed delay in returning to normal demand mix due to lingering COVID effects in 2021. The remaining portion or about 1/3 of this $0.12 demand impact reflects normal year-over-year load growth in '22.We expect approximately $0.09 of additional earnings from transmission revenue as we continue to make investments to improve transmission infrastructure. Next, additional O&M savings are expected to add around $0.05 as we continue to progress toward Tier one cost efficiency and our more robust long-term O&M savings objective, now representing an over 25% reduction in O&M from 2018 to 2025. The remaining drivers include the impact of expiring merger-related bill credits and a slight increase in interest savings and AFUDC equity, all of which are offset by depreciation expense not yet reflected in rates and $0.01 of other items.With that, I'll hand the call back to David.David Campbell -- President, Chief Executive Officer & DirectorThank you, Kirk. So for everyone on the call, we appreciate your time with us today. And now we'd be happy to take your questions.