  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to Microchip's third-quarter fiscal 2020 financial results. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Microchip's chief financial officer, Mr. Eric Bjornholt. Please go ahead, sir.Eric Bjornholt -- Chief Financial Officer

 



 Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. During the course of this conference call, we will be making projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are predictions and that actual events or results may differ materially. We refer you to our press releases of today, as well as our recent filings with the SEC that identify important risk factors that may impact Microchip's business and results of operations. In attendance with me today are Ganesh Moorthy, Microchip's president and CEO; Steve Sanghi, Microchip's executive chair; and Sajid Daudi, Microchip's head of investor relations. I will comment on our third-quarter fiscal year 2022 financial performance. Ganesh will then provide commentary on our results and discuss the current business environment, as well as our guidance, and Steve will provide an update on our cash return strategy. We will then be available to respond to specific investor and analyst questions.We are including information in our press release and this conference call on various GAAP and non-GAAP measures. We have posted a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation on the Investor Relations page for our website at www.microchip.com and included reconciliation information in our press release, which we believe you will find useful when comparing GAAP and non-GAAP results. We have also posted a summary of our outstanding debt and leverage metrics on our website. I will now go through some of the operating results, including net sales, gross margin, and operating expenses. Other than net sales, I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP basis, which is based on expenses prior to the effects of our acquisition activities, share-based compensation, and certain other adjustments as described in our press release. Net sales in the December quarter were $1.76 billion, which was up 6.5% sequentially and up 30% compared to the December quarter of fiscal 2021. We have posted a summary of our GAAP net sales by product line and geography, as well as our total end-market demand, on our website for your reference. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were a record at 66.1% and operating income was a record 44.6%.

 



 Non-GAAP net income was a record $681.7 million. Our non-GAAP cash tax rate was 6.7% in the December quarter. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was at the high end of our guidance and was a record $1.20. On a GAAP basis, in the December quarter, gross margins were a record at 65.6% and include the impact of $8.4 million of share-based compensation expense. Total operating expenses were $638.3 million and include acquisition intangible amortization of $215.7 million, special income of $0.3 million, $3.2 million of acquisition-related and other costs, and share-based compensation of $42.5 million. GAAP net income was $352.8 million or $0.62 per diluted share and was negatively impacted by the GAAP loss on the convertible debt exchanges we executed in the quarter, which were not included in our guidance. Our December quarter GAAP tax expense was impacted by a variety of factors, most notably, the tax expense recorded from truing up estimated taxes to actual amounts based on tax returns filed during the quarter. Our inventory balance at December 31, 2021, was $768.2 million. We had 116 days of inventory at the end of the quarter, which was up four days from the prior quarter's level. Our levels of raw materials and work in progress increased in the quarter, which helps position us for increased production we are expecting from our internal factories and helps buffer us against unexpected shortages or changes in material lead times. The days of inventory on our balance sheet go up with our gross margin improvement, with each 100 basis points of gross margin improvement translating into approximately two to three days of increased inventory on our balance sheet. The carrying cost of our inventory has been and will be increasing due to rising input costs from our supply chain. We are continuing to ramp capacity in our internal and external factories so we can ship as much product as possible to support customer requirements. Inventory at our distributors in the December quarter was at 19 days, which is a record low level and in line with where it was at the end of the prior quarter. During the December 2021 quarter, we achieved a milestone of becoming an investment-grade rated company. This is a goal we have been pursuing since we acquired Microsemi in May of 2018, and it positions us well for our capital return strategy that we detailed for investors at our Investor and Analyst Day back in November.

 



 In the December quarter, we exchanged a total of $96.2 million of principal value of 2025, 2027, and 2037 convertible subordinated notes for cash and shares of our common stock. We used cash generation during the quarter to fund the principal amount of the convertible debt exchanges, and we believe that these transactions will benefit stockholders by significantly reducing share count dilution to the extent our stock price appreciates over time. The principal amount of convertible debt on our balance sheet at December 31 was $903 million, compared to $4.481 billion at the beginning of calendar 2020, putting our overall capital structure in a much better long-term position. During the December quarter, we also refinanced our revolving line of credit to be in line with our investment-grade rating and decrease the size of that facility from $3.6 billion to $2.75 billion. Our cash flow from operating activities was a record $853.4 million in the December quarter. Our free cash flow was a record $762.7 million and 43.4% of net sales. As of December 31, our consolidated cash and total investment position was $315.5 million. We paid down $362.7 million of total debt in the December quarter. And over the last 14 full quarters, since we closed the Microsemi acquisition and incurred over $8 billion in debt to do so, we have paid down almost $4.8 billion of the debt and continue to allocate substantially all of our excess cash beyond dividends and stock buyback to bring down this debt. We have accomplished this despite the adverse macro and market conditions during the earlier years of this period, which we feel is a testimony to the cash generation capabilities of our business, as well as our ongoing operating discipline. We continue to expect our debt levels to reduce significantly over the next several years. Our adjusted EBITDA in the December quarter was a record $869.4 million and 49.5% of net sales. Our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA was also a record at $3 billion and 46.5% of net sales. Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 2.58 at December 31, 2021, down from 2.99 at September 30, 2021. Our dividend payment in the September quarter was $128.7 million, and we repurchased $166 million of stock during the quarter. Capital expenditures were $90.7 million in the December quarter. Our expectation for the March 2022 quarter's capital expenditures is between $135 million and $145 million. Our capital expenditures for fiscal 2022 are expected to be between $390 million and $400 million. As a reminder, our fiscal year 2021 capital expenditures came in lower than originally planned due to longer equipment lead times and deliveries pushing out as a result of overall industry conditions. We continue to prudently add capital equipment to maintain, grow and operate our internal manufacturing operations to support the expected long-term growth of the business. We expect these capital investments will bring gross margin improvement to our business and give us increased control over our production during periods of industrywide constraints. Depreciation expense in the December quarter was $64.9 million. I will now turn it over to Ganesh to give his comments on the quarter on the performance of the business, as well as our guidance for the March quarter. Ganesh? Ganesh Moorthy -- President and Chief Executive Officer Great. Thank you, Eric, and good afternoon, everyone. Our December quarter results continued the strength of strong growth quarters, with revenue growing 6.5% sequentially to achieve another all-time record at $1.76 billion, breaking through the $7 billion annualized revenue milestone. On a year-over-year basis, our December quarter revenue was up 30%, registering the fifth consecutive quarter of rising year-over-year revenue growth rate. Non-GAAP gross margin was another record of 66.1%, up 80 basis points from 65.3% in the September quarter and above the midpoint of our guidance as we continue to ramp our internal factories and benefit from improved fixed cost absorption, as well as product mix changes. Non-GAAP operating margin was also a record at 44.6%, up 210 basis points from 42.5% in the September quarter and well above the high end of our guidance. The large increase in operating margin percentage was helped by the rapid growth in revenue, and the additional time it is taking to hire new employees, thus delaying expected operating expenses. At 21.5% operating expenses, we're 100 basis points below the low end of our long-term model of 22.5% to 23.5% in operating expenses. Our long-term business model will continue to guide our actions to enable the long-term growth and profitability of our business. Our consolidated non-GAAP diluted EPS was a record $1.20 per share at the high end of our guidance and up 49% from the year-ago quarter. Adjusted EBITDA at 49.5% of revenue and free cash flow at 43.4% of revenue were both very strong, continuing to demonstrate the robust cash-generation capabilities of our business. This, in turn, enabled us to pay down another $362.7 million in debt. It's brought down our net debt by $422.1 million, driving our net leverage ratio down to 2.58% in the December quarter. This reduction in net debt and net leverage ratio was achieved despite our also buying back $166 million of our shares under our $4 billion stock buyback program, which we initiated soon after we achieved investment-grade rating for our debt in November. The December quarter marked our 125th consecutive quarter of non-GAAP profitability. And I would like to thank all our stakeholders who enabled us to achieve these outstanding and record results and especially thank the worldwide Microchip team whose tireless efforts are what made these results possible. Taking a look at our revenue from a product line perspective. Our microcontroller revenue was sequentially up a strong 8.7% as compared to the September quarter and was an all-time record. On an annualized basis, our December quarter microcontroller revenue at $3.9 billion is closing in on $4 billion. On a year-over-year basis, our December quarter microcontroller revenue was up 33.9%. All microcontroller product lines, eight-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit, had over 30% year-over-year revenue growth in the December quarter, with 32-bit microcontrollers having the highest year-over-year growth. Eight-bit microcontrollers and 32-bit microcontrollers, both of which are about the same size in revenue, each also achieved record revenue milestones. Microcontrollers represented 55.3% of our revenue in the December quarter. Coming off strong sequential growth in the September quarter, our analog revenue increased 1.9% in the December quarter, setting another record in the process. On an annualized basis, our December quarter analog revenue broke through the $2 billion mark for the first time. On a year-over-year basis, our December quarter analog revenue was up 34.3%, almost the same year-over-year growth rate as our microcontroller revenue. Analog represented 28.5% of our revenue in the December quarter. While we no longer break out our FPGA or licensing revenue, they both remain a key focus for Microchip's long-term growth. In the December quarter, our FPGA revenue hit an all-time record by a wide margin, and our licensing royalty revenue also hit an all-time record. Taking a look at our revenue from a geographic and end-market perspective. Americas was up 4.6% sequentially, Europe was up 11% sequentially, which is significantly better than typical seasonal performance for the December quarter, Asia was up 5.8% sequentially and all end markets were strong and supply constrained. Business conditions continue to be exceptionally strong through the quarter. Our preferred supply program, or PSP backlog, continues to grow and is well over 50% of our aggregate backlog and 100% of our backlog in the most constrained capacity product areas. Demand far outpaced the capacity improvements and increased shipments we achieved in the quarter. As a result, our unsupported backlog, which represents backlog customers wanted shipped to them in the December quarter but which we could not deliver in the December quarter, continued to climb significantly as compared to the unsupported backlog exiting the September quarter. To illustrate the magnitude of the demand-supply imbalance. Despite our December quarter revenue having grown 30% as compared to the year-ago quarter, we exited the December quarter with the highest unsupported backlog ever. We continue to experience constraints in all our internal and external factories and their related manufacturing supply chains. We are also experiencing some adverse impact from the rapid rise in the Omicron variant cases of the COVID-19 virus. We continue to ramp our internal factories as fast as possible, and we are working closely with our supply chain partners who provide wafer foundry, assembly, test, and materials to secure additional capacity wherever possible. Looking at the magnitude of the demand-supply imbalance, the size of our noncancelable backlog, and the rate at which we're able to bring on new capacity, we continue to expect that we will remain supply constrained throughout 2022 and possibly beyond that. We believe our backlog position, especially the proportion of PSP backlog, is giving us a solid foundation to prudently acquire constrained raw materials, invest in expanding factory capacity and hire employees to support our factory ramps. Our planned capital spending continues to rise in response to growth opportunities in our business, as well as to fill gaps in the level of capacity investments being made by our outsourced manufacturing partners in technologies they consider to be trailing edge, but which we believe will be workhorse technologies for us for many years to come. In the December quarter, we signed a definitive agreement to purchase an assembly test factory shell in the Philippines near where we already operate our manufacturing facilities. As we facilitize and build out this shell with equipment, we will be able to grow our internal back-end capacity for many years to come. We believe our increase in capital spending will enable us to capitalize on growth opportunities, improve our gross margins, increase our market share, and give us more control over our destiny, especially for trailing-edge technologies. We will, of course, continue to utilize the capacity available from our outsourced partners. But our goal is to be less constrained by their investment priorities in areas where they don't align with our business needs. Now, let's get into the guidance for the March quarter. Our backlog for the March quarter is very strong, and we have more capacity improvements coming into effect. However, our supply in the March quarter is expected to be adversely impacted by the COVID-19 Omicron variant, which has increased the level of factory workforce absentees. We also have challenges in staffing in several of our factories at the rate we would like to. Taking all these factors we have discussed on the call today into consideration, we expect our net sales for the March quarter to be up between 2% and 5% sequentially. Our guidance range assumes some capacity additions, as well as continued capacity constraints, some of which we expect to work during the quarter and others that we will carry over to future quarters. At the midpoint of our revenue guidance, our year-over-year growth for the March quarter would be a strong 24%. For the March quarter, we expect our non-GAAP gross margin to be between 66.2% and 66.6% of sales. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be between 21.8% and 22.2%, and we expect non-GAAP operating profit to be between 44% and 48% of sales. We expect our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to be between $1.22 per share and $1.28 per share. Given all the complications of accounting for our acquisitions, including amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, and inventory write-up on acquisitions, Microchip will continue to provide guidance and track its results on a non-GAAP basis except for net sales, which will be on a GAAP basis. We believe that non-GAAP results provide more meaningful comparison to prior quarters, and we request that analysts continue to report their non-GAAP estimates to first call. Finally, at our Investor Day on November 8 last year, we unveiled our Microchip 3.0 strategy, which builds on our Microchip 2.0 strategy that we successfully executed over the last decade, employing serial acquisitions to give us a solid foundation to build scale and breadth of solutions while significantly improving our gross and operating margin model. To summarize, the essential elements of Microchip 3.0 we announced were: an organic growth target of 2x the industry growth by focusing on total system solutions and the six key market megatrends; long-term non-GAAP operating margin target of 44% to 46% and free cash flow target of 38%; increased capital return to shareholders to 50% of free cash flow and further increase this every quarter to return 100% of free cash flow to shareholders as net leverage drops to 1.5x; increase our capex investment to 3% to 6% of revenue and invest in 130 to 150 days of inventory over the business cycles; and finally, to maintain a strong company foundation built on culture and sustainability. As you can see from our December quarter results and the March quarter guidance, we are laser-focused on executing our Microchip 3.0 strategy. Let me now pass the baton to Steve to talk more about our capital return to shareholders. Steve?Steve Sanghi -- Executive Chairman Thank you, Ganesh, and good afternoon, everyone. Today, I would like to reflect on our financial results announced today and provide you further updates on our capital return strategy. Reflecting on our financial results, I continue to be very proud of all employees of Microchip that have delivered another exceptional quarter in making new records in many respects, namely record net sales, record non-GAAP gross margin percentage, record non-GAAP operating margin percentage, record non-GAAP EPS, record cash flow from operations and record adjusted EBITDA. The board of directors announced an increase in the dividend of 9.1% from last quarter to $0.253 per share. This is an increase of 29.7% from a year-ago quarter. Last quarter, we received an investment-grade rating from both Moody's and Fitch. After receiving such rating, we initiated our enhanced capital return strategy that we described at our Investor and Analyst Day on November 8, 2021. During the last quarter, we purchased $166 million of our stock in the open market. We also paid out $129 million in dividends. Thus, the total cash return totaled $295 million. This was 50.1% of our free cash flow projection at the start of the quarter of $589 million, consistent with us targeting 50% of free cash flow as a return to our investors. However, our cash collections in the final month of the quarter were exceptional due to a very strong and linear shipping quarter and record non-GAAP gross and operating margins, and record adjusted EBITDA being well above our forecast. Our actual free cash flow last quarter was $763 million, which was $174 million higher than our projection. Towards the end of the quarter, the stock buyback window had already closed. So, we use the extra free cash flow toward further paying down the debt. This extra paydown of debt, as well as record adjusted EBITDA, drove down our December net leverage to 2.58 from 2.99 at the end of September. Our strategy for cash return to the shareholders was to execute it based on forecast and then true up in the following quarter. Because of the unpredictability of the free cash flow, we are simplifying the process. Going forward, we will use the actual free cash flow for the prior quarter and return our target percentage of that free cash flow to shareholders in the current quarter. So, based on this revised process, we will use our last quarter's actual free cash flow of $763 million. This quarter, we plan to return 52.5% of this $763 million, which is $400 million to the shareholders. Out of this $400 million, the dividend is expected to be approximately $141 million, and the stock buyback is expected to be approximately $259 million. I would also like to note that on January 13, 2022, Moody's further raised Microchip's unsecured debt credit rating from prior BAA3+ to the current BAA2+. As you know, Moody's BAA2 rating is equivalent to BBB on the rating scale of S&P and Fitch. With that, operator, will you please poll for questions? 