
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Equity Residential Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Marty McKenna. Please go ahead, sir.Martin McKenna -- Investor RelationsGood morning, and thanks for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's third quarter 2021 results. Our featured speakers today are Mark Parrell, our President and CEO; and Michael Manelis, our Chief Operating Officer; Bob Garechana, our Chief Financial Officer and Alec Brackenridge, our Chief Investment Officer are here with us as well for the Q&A.

 



Our earnings release as well as a management presentation regarding our results and outlook are posted in the Investors section of equityapartments.com.Please be advised that one of our peers is hosting their call at 1 PM Central and so want to be conscious of everyone's time and we'll look to finish the call in one hours. Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties. The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.Now, I'll turn the call over to Mark Parrell.Mark J. Parrell -- Chief Executive Officer, President & Trustee

 



Thanks, Marty, and thanks to all of you for joining us. Today, I'll give some brief remarks and a terrific piece of our operating recovery and our robust investment activity. Then, Michael Manelis will follow with some top level commentary on the current state of our operations and how we see next year playing out and then we'll take your questions.We have talked about 2021 being a year of recovery for our company. And we are very pleased to report that our operating metrics continue to recover at a faster rate than we assumed back in July, with quarter-over-quarter same-store revenues turning positive for the first time since the pandemic began. Strong demand across our markets drove us to achieve physical occupancy of 96.6% in the third quarter, which allowed us to continue to push rental rates.We also benefited from governmental rental relief payments made on behalf of our tenants. As a result of these strong continued operating metrics, we have raised our annual same-store revenue, net operating income and normalized FFO guidance again this quarter. We now expect our same-store revenues to decline 3.7%. Our expenses to increase 3.25% and NOI to decline 7% for the full year of 2021. We expect to produce normalized FFO per share of between $2.95 and $2.97, a 2% increase at the midpoint.All of this leaves us very well positioned going into 2022. While we won't provide guidance for next year until our next earnings release in February, in our management presentation, you can find the building blocks that point to our business being setup for an extended period of higher than trend growth beginning in 2022 as we recaptured revenue loss due to the pandemic and continue to benefit from strong demand and growing incomes resulting from a very strong job market.

 



We expect same-store revenue growth in 2022 to exceed the historical mid single-digit range, that has characterized past recoveries, leading to some of the best same-store revenue numbers we have ever seen. These expectations assume that the economic backdrop remains constructive and the pandemic remains controlled. Please also note that while we expect to do very well next year, we will not be able to make up our entire mark-to-market on our rent roll and regain our entire loss to lease in a single year for a variety of marketing and regulatory reasons that Michael will describe in a moment.Beyond 2022, we see a continuing bright future for our business, as the large emerging Gen Z cohorts starts their careers and joins the renter population. Also, the more diverse portfolio, we are creating should improve long-term returns and dampen volatility going forward. Switching to the transaction side of the business. The positive story and fundamentals not gone unnoticed by the investment community as the overall theme continues to be enormous amounts of capital pursuing all types of apartment investment driving cap rates to new lows.This has caused a convergence in nominal cap rates in the 3.5% or so range for many markets and has created a positive climate for our strategic repositioning efforts. We continue to aggressively sell our older and less desirable properties at these low cap rates and at prices that exceed our pre-pandemic value estimates, acquiring much newer assets in our expansion markets of Dallas-Fort Worth, Austin, Atlanta and Denver and the select suburbs of our established markets at approximately equal cap rates.All of the assets we are acquiring share the common characteristic of being recently built having no or minimal retail and being attractive to our target affluent renter demographic. We like that these trades are not dilutive to current earnings while adding properties to the portfolio that we believe will have better long-term cash flow growth, lower capital needs and diversification benefits.Year-to-date, we have purchased more than $1 billion of properties and expect to close another $400 million or so in acquisitions, mostly in our expansion markets. A good number of which are in various states of advanced negotiation already, all by year-end. We have funded these buys within approximately equal amount of dispositions of older and less desirable assets, which we sold at an average premium of 10% to our pre-pandemic estimates of value. Included in these sales are approximately $900 million of California assets. Currently, approximately 42% of our total assets are in California.As we seek to have more balance in our portfolio, you should expect our California exposure to decline over time but to remain meaningful.Turning to development. We had a lot of great news in the quarter and all starts with the apartment development joint venture with Toll Brothers, the public homebuilder that we announced in August. We have known and respected the team at Toll for many years and have successfully partnered with them before.They built terrific properties and have a large team to spread across our expansion markets and select of our other markets that we expect to leverage in this joint venture to create quality properties for Equity Residential to own long term. The venture is off to a quick start as we closed already in this fourth quarter on one total land opportunity and are working with them on many others.We also have a strong internal development team in our company, that continues to create opportunities. In this quarter that team completed the development of our Edge property in Bethesda Maryland. This high end asset is adjacent to an existing EQR asset and located very near a metro station as well as the large amount of new office space that has recently been built in downtown Bethesda. They also sourced and structured the three new joint venture development deals in Washington D.C., Denver and Suburban New York that began construction this quarter.Each of these joint venture development deals is with a different partner and is not related to the Toll venture.Before I turn the call over to Michael, a big thank you to all my colleagues in our offices and properties across the country. You're doing an exceptional job during what was a particularly busy leasing season and we are all very proud and grateful.Go ahead, Michael.Michael L. Manelis -- Executive Vice President & Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Mark. The entire peak leasing season delivered consistent high levels of demand that allowed us to continue to grow occupancy as well as rates at a pace that exceeded our expectations. In both the earnings release and in the accompanying management presentation, we have provided some key performance metrics, which demonstrate the strength of the leasing season and the fundamentals that position this portfolio well for 2022.Occupancy is 96.9% today, which is 60 basis points higher than 2019 and 260 basis points higher than the same week in 2020. At this point, we expect to maintain strong occupancy through the balance of the year.Pricing trend, which includes the impact of concessions grew throughout the entire peak leasing season and is now 28% higher than it was on January 1st. The pandemic caused our net effective pricing to decline by $520 from March to December of 2020 and from January 2021 to today, that same pricing trend has grown $637, which demonstrates a V-shaped recovery and shows that we have more than fully recovered what we had lost in price.Concession use, which has been a main topic of discussion for the last 18 months is now being used on a very limited basis and inline with pre-pandemic levels, with less than 1% of our applications in September and October receiving an average concession amount of less than two weeks. New lease change was up 10.1% in the third quarter and is on track to be just over 11% in October.We have seen signs of seasonal softening, both in terms of pricing power and application volume. But these trends are normal to slightly better than typical seasonality patterns and more importantly, the volume of traffic and applications currently is more than sufficient given the low levels of available inventory we have in the portfolio. Renewals were a major focus for the quarter, given the rapid improvements in market pricing from a year ago as well as the fact that we have slightly more expirations in the back half of 2021 than normal.We have been centralizing negotiations for the San Francisco, New York and Boston markets in our off site call center group as pricing in these markets were the most impacted by the pandemic and conversations in these markets have become more and more difficult as we are dealing with residents who received large concessions and much lower rates this time last year.The good news is that the results have been great across all of our markets. We renewed 62% of residents in September and October is on track to be just below 65%, which is much better than the 55% historical norm that we thought we were going to stabilize that. At the same time, renewal rate achieved has continue to improve with September at 7.7% and October on track to be 9%. We expect continued growth despite what will likely be challenging negotiations. Perhaps our biggest positive from these negotiations is that so far, we are not seeing any material difference in renewal behaviors from the deal seekers who received very discounted rents last year versus our more tenured residents.Overall, they are renewing at similar paces. This is something we will continue watching very closely.Before providing color on a couple of markets, let me touch on our positioning for 2022. As we think about same-store revenue growth, we have some key drivers that should work in our favor.First, our existing leases are add a material loss to lease. What I mean by that is if we snapshot all of our leases in place today and compare them to current market prices, 86% of our residents are paying on average rents that are significantly below current market prices. The result of this is a net effective loss to lease of 13.6%. This provides us with a significant opportunity to increase our revenue as we move these leases to market rates.That of course does not mean that we will capture the full 13% in 2022, largely because leases expire throughout the year, not on January 1st. And we currently are subject to renewal restrictions in some jurisdictions, which means the change is very dependent upon who actually moves out. Regardless, this is definitely the highest loss to lease we have ever seen, with such a large majority of leases below market. And the teams are hyper-focused to recapture as much of the loss to lease as possible.Second, we expect that the significant demand and favorable fundamentals in our business will drive additional revenue growth opportunities in all of our markets in 2022. Remember, we have seen unprecedented demand even with only modest return to office activity. So the backdrop for intra-period rent growth expectations in 2022 is strong. Third, we expect to get a nice lift from occupancy in the first half of the year, as we were at 95% in the first quarter and 96.2% in the second quarter of this year.We are currently running above 96.5% and would expect to maintain this level or better in 2022. And finally, we have regulatory restrictions that are beginning to expire. This presents an opportunity to recapture revenue through the reduction of bad debt and increased collection of late fees in 2022. All of these factors combined put us in a position to deliver very strong revenue growth next year, assuming regulatory conditions continue to improve and the general economic conditions remain supportive.Moving to a couple of quick market comments. Starting on the East Coast. The New York market not only has fully rebounded, but it continues to have strong demand for our product despite the broader delays and return to office. At this point, New York is positioned to outperform seasonal trends in the fourth quarter. Boston and D.C. are performing as expected with great demand and strong occupancy with normal seasonality.On the West Coast, Southern California has been and continues to be very strong. San Francisco and Seattle appeared to be the two markets most impacted by the delay in return to office in terms of overall demand levels, but so far, appeared to be following normal seasonality trends. San Francisco while demonstrating a good recovery remains the only market that has not yet fully recovered from a pricing standpoint.Occupancy has been improving in San Francisco over the past month or so and today we are 96.5% and should be well positioned to capture demand and pricing power once the tech companies begin to provide more clarity around return to office plans. Seattle has been a little more volatile than expected. Current occupancy is 95.6%. And while the overall demand level is holding up, the announcement from Amazon a few weeks ago regarding office return decisions has impacted our leasing velocity.Our on-site teams in Seattle mentioned their prospects definitely have a lack of urgency to lease, but are very interested in options for later this year or early next year.Moving on to expenses. Mark mentioned, our same-store expense guidance at 3 in a quarter. For the full year, we are seeing increased cost across all utility categories. However, about 65% of these costs are ultimately passed back to residents through the utility reimbursements that run through the revenue line. We are also seeing pressure on wages in this very tight labor market, but have been successful in mitigating growth in our on-site payroll numbers by realizing staffing efficiencies. These efficiencies have been achieved through the numerous innovation initiatives that we have rolled out over the past year or so.This includes moving to self-guided tours, online leasing and utilizing our artificial intelligent leasing agent named Ella. On the service side, we also leveraged our service mobility platform and new technology to deliver the experience and service that our customers require, which is evident by the all-time high online reputation Google rating of 4.2, all while also reducing the expense pressures.We expect these efficiencies and opportunities to accelerate into 2022, as we continue to harness technology to deliver the customer experience that our residents require. Finally, I will end and an update on the rent relief recoveries. Fortunately, our affluent resident was less impacted by the pandemic as they kept their jobs and continue to pay rent.For those that were impacted, we have continued to work with them, including assisting them in applying for rent relief. We have received $18.3 million September year-to-date in this rent relief, with the majority of that coming to us in the third quarter. This exceeds our prior expectations of $15 million recovered in the full year. Even with some of the eviction moratoriums expiring, our goal will be to continue working with residents to gain access to be additional rent relief funds.We continue to have good traction in this process and now expect the full year rental relief recoveries of between $25 million and $30 million in 2021.Let me close by thanking the entire Equity Residential team for their continued dedication and hard work.With that, I will turn the call over to the operator to begin the Q&A session.