
OperatorGood afternoon, my name is Jason, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Fortune Brands' First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Dave Barry, Senior Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations. You may begin the conference call.David Barry -- Senior Vice President, Finance and Investor RelationsGood afternoon everyone, and welcome to the Fortune Brands Home & Security first quarter 2021 investor conference call and webcast. I'm Dave Barry, and I recently became Senior Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations at Fortune Brands after spending the prior six years in our Plumbing segment most recently, as Chief Financial Officer. I'm excited to be here, and I look forward to working with you all in my new role.

 



Hopefully, everyone has had a chance to review the earnings release issued earlier. The earnings release and the audio replay of the webcast of this call can be found in the Investors Section of our fbhs.com website. I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements we make on the call today either in our prepared remarks or in the associated question-and-answer session are based on current expectations and market outlook and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.These risks are detailed in our various filings with the SEC, such as in our most recent Form 10-K. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements except, as required by law. Any references to operating profit or margin, earnings per share or cash flow on today's call will focus on our results on a before charges and gains basis, unless otherwise specified.With me on the call today are, Nick Fink, our Chief Executive Officer; and Pat Hallinan, our Chief Financial Officer. Following our prepared remarks, we have a lot of time to address some questions, and I will now turn the call over to Nick.Nicholas Fink -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Dave, thank you, and welcome. And thank you to everyone for joining us on the call today. I hope that you and your loved ones are all staying safe as parts of the world begins to reopen. I could have been proud of our first quarter results, which reflected broad-based acceleration of our remarkable 2020 performance. Our business performed very strongly across the board. For the quarter, our total company sales increased by 26% over last year, with each business delivering double-digit organic growth. Operating margin increased 270 basis points to 14.8% and earnings per share increased 68%.This performance was the result of exceptional execution by our teams in the housing market, which we believe is in the early stages of a period of long-term sustainable growth. Our stellar first quarter results were meaningfully ahead of a strong market and lap a very good Q1 in 2020. Importantly, we continue to drive market beating growth while advancing our strategic agenda including accelerating our margin improvement initiatives.Our focus on execution, efficiency and safety drove share gains and favorable operational leverage. This focus allowed us to continue to service our customers and consumers with our industry-leading brands and innovation, while also increasing investments in the business these best in class results cannot be achieved without our wonderful people. They drive what we call the Fortune Brands advantage, which I'd introduced to you one year ago. This powerful combination of a common set of capabilities including category management, global supply chain excellence and complexity reduction skills deployed across Fortune Brands we'll continue to provide both investment for sustained above market growth, and operating margin improvement into the future.Our performance continues to demonstrate that Fortune Brands is among the most reliable providers to our channel partners, delivering high levels of service in a high demand environment, while proactively working to keep people safe. As the pandemic moves into its next stages, we've continued our efforts to keep our employees safe by working tirelessly to secure access to vaccines for our workers. Through the efforts of our local teams, we have held or planning on holding nearly 20 onsite vaccination events across our locations. We are also working with local communities to help avail local vaccination events and are engaging and educating our employees to ensure the highest vaccine adoption rates possible.

 



I'm proud of our safety track record during the pandemic, which continues to be a ahead of manufacturing and national benchmarks. That said, we've learned a lot about operating in this type of environment, we will apply those lessons to continuously improve, and make Fortune Brands stand out among employers.On the back of our continued outperformance in the housing market with long-term sustainable growth momentum, we've increased the global and U.S. market expectations for our leading brands, and our financial guidance for the year. Pat will go into greater detail later, how we are successfully navigating demand-driven challenges to be able to pursue higher rates of growth, margin, earnings and cash flow for our stakeholders.We will leverage our Fortune Brands advantage in this favorable market to accelerate operating income improvement, and continue to free up incremental cash to make strategic long-term investments in our brands, innovation, digital strategy and supply chain capacity. This will enable us to capture more opportunities and continue to increase our share gains over time.Turning to the remainder of our remarks today. First, I will discuss what we're seeing in our home products market. I will then highlight key takeaways from our first quarter, and provide additional color on what drove the results. Finally, Pat will provide highlights on our financial results, balance sheet strength and liquidity, as well as our thoughts around increased guidance to our financial outlook for the year.Now, turning to our views on the housing market. Long-term fundamentals for housing and home products remain very favorable, and the rate of demand has further accelerated after a strong second half of 2020. This has been widely noted, the U.S. has currently millions of homes underbuilt, as growth of housing supply has not kept up with household formations. This dynamic has grown over a long period, and we expect the unwinding to persist for a long time. With supply and balances reached a point where even at the current rate of new construction starts, it will take several years for supply and demand to come into balance.This severely underbuilt environment impacts both new construction and repair and remodel activity, as consumers are faced with the choice of purchasing a new home or updating very aged housing stock. As a result, we are uniquely positioned with our leading brands, and channel positions to take advantage of the tailwind of long-term housing activity. A differentiated exposure to new construction, combined with our powerful channel strength in R&R will remain a lever for growth well into the future.Additionally, demographic to reinforce, as support we need for this expansionary housing environment to persist. The key millennial generation continues to move into their home buying years, while the baby boomer generation is choosing to age in place, and is adapting their homes accordingly. The pandemic has accelerated favorable trends that were already in place and has increased focus on the value proposition of the home. Even if vaccine distribution expands, and the majority of the U.S. population is vaccinated this year, both employers and employees have seen the benefits of more flexible workplace arrangements.This resulted shift away from a full work week in office will create continued demand for workspace in the home, and allow employees the optionality of living further from their offices. Moreover, we've also seen purchases of second homes' rise, our brand's end products are well positioned to capitalize and is likely to be lasting movement.Turning specifically to new construction. Activity remains robust driven by these very favorable demographics, lower inventory and attractive mortgage rates. Current pace in activity seem only to be governed by the ability of builders to source land, labor and materials effectively. Although, our inventory in rising home prices might create an uneven growth trajectory, we strongly believe that favorable demographics will fuel a multiyear sustainable housing expansion.As I mentioned, repair and remodel activity also remains very strong and has expanded into 2021 as consumers spend on home improvement projects to refurbish in the aging housing stock. With demand for homes outpacing supply, older inventory is being purchased leading to significant R&R projects as homes are modernized. For example, we saw a strong double-digit growth in the premium price point segments of our Cabinets and Plumbing businesses, indicating the strength of large ticket R&R.Current homeowners are also driving investment, as rising home prices have increased home equity levels to an all-time record of more than $7 trillion. This significant driver of R&R activity is amplified by the fact that consumers today are sitting on $2 trillion more in saving accounts than before the start of the pandemic. This combination of favorable demographics, severe underbuilding, attractive interest rates, high home equity levels, and the focus on the home as a place for multiple enjoyment gives us confidence in our increased market forecast for 2021, and the anticipated persistent housing tailwind we expect for years to come.Much attention in the first quarter of this year has been paid to material, and other cost inflation, as well as pressure in global supply chains. We're pulling every lever available to us to service our customers. As we have demonstrated, our ability to mitigate and overcome challenges where the demand, supply were inflationary in nature has been proven through our consistent delivery of results.As we speak to you today, having once again delivered exceptional performance, and having increased our financial outlook for the year, for both sales and margin, we will continue to be laser-focused on driving consistent stakeholder value across the organization, no matter of the environment.With that market backdrop some thoughts on the recent quarter. We further executed on our margin accretion objectives in the quarter, as we saw the continued benefit from our efficiency programs, which began in early 2020. Consistent with our strategy, the execution of our Fortune Brands advantaged capabilities created fuel for growth that allowed us to invest in key growth initiatives, including in our brand and product innovation, digital capabilities and capacity expansions.Importantly, these cross company initiatives to drive long-term growth and margin improvement, as well as to free-up additional funds for investment in our key priorities are ahead of schedule, and have contributed to our growth, and margin improvement in the quarter.With an even stronger 2021 outlook, we are accelerating investment behind our core strategies, while also delivering margin improvement above our prior expectations. At the same time, we will maintain investment discipline, knowing that the pandemic is still ongoing and expansions do not always unfold in a linear way, start to deliver consistent performance for our stakeholders.Now, let me turn to our individual businesses, and how we're positioning for a stronger long-term future. Starting with Plumbing. Our Global Plumbing Group continued to outperform the global and U.S. markets. The business accelerated during the first quarter of this year with sales of an excess of 30% in the quarter. These strong sales drove operating leverage, resulting in a 24% OI margin, notwithstanding increased investment in brand, innovation and customer service.We experienced very strong double-digit sales growth across all brands, channels, and regions. Even if we exclude China to isolate the first quarter of 2020's COVID impact on the business, Plumbing sales still grew in excess of 25%.Our Moen brand continues to win in its core products and adjacencies. Our leading brand awareness, purchase intent and loyalty metrics show non-persistently resonates with the key millennial consumer. Our cutting edge marketing is winning accolades, and we are investing more behind our powerful content. Our combination of advanced smart technology, and untrend designs drive share and profit growth has known leads into finding the way humans will interact with water now, and into the future.We made significant progress, as our Flo by Moen technology rolled up into a key builder partner, and we also increased our retail distribution. We also further expanded Moen's smart home network with our Flo by Moen digital sump pump monitor, which one accolades to CS and the prestigious cable shell. Our sustained investment in innovation brand and channel with unrelenting focus on product delivery and service levels will continue to perpetuate the cycle of outperformance for North America's leading plumbing brand.Additionally Moen China continues to outperform its market through channel and category expansion while providing high levels of product quality and service to our customers. All of our channels grew double-digit versus their first quarter 2019 pre-COVID levels. We have rolled out increased brand investment in China, and we're seeing a very strong response to our campaign.Finally, the House of ROHL grew in excess of 25% globally despite continued restrictions and showroom capacity in the U.S. enrolling lockdowns in Canada and Europe. The positioning of these brands is authentic luxury plumbing collections resonates with consumers for leveraging their own strong balance sheets to elevate and customize their kitchen and bathroom designs.Turning to Outdoors and Security, sales increased by over 45% and operating margin increased by over 300 basis points to 13.5%. Organic sales, which exclude our recent LARSON came in at an impressive 15% growth. These exceptional results were driven by very strong double-digit decking and doors growth, continued growth in security and exceptional execution across the segment.With respect to LARSON, our teams are hard at work in integrating the business, and capturing expected growth and synergies. The LARSON team has proven to be a wonderful fit with our Fortune Brands' family. There is more work to do, but we are ahead of schedule and our expectation of synergies from this addition to our portfolio are as good or better than we thought at the time we announced the transaction.Turning to Decking. Fiberon grew in excess of 40% an impressive feed during a winter period that normally include some seasonal slowing. Momentum in our decking brand has not only continued but is strengthening. Some of the other composite board makers we continue to take increasing share from lumber decking products. Our investment thesis continues to be confirmed, as distribution expansion coupled with leveraging our Fortune Brands advantage capabilities positions Fiberon for long-term growth in a market fueled by trends in housing, outdoor living and long-term material conversion from wood to higher performing eco-friendly recycled materials.We remain on track to add capacity mid-year, as we drive double-digit top line growth across Fiberon. With inflationary pressure on lumber although much of the last year, the price differential between commodity wood in brand and engineered decking is negligible, contributing to a greater number of customers choosing engineered materials. That said, even if lumber pricing moderates the cost benefit equation will continue to weigh heavily in favor of engineered materials, and the value proposition will continue to improve through branding and innovation.Sales in our legacy doors brand experienced strong double-digit growth in the quarter, including robust demand in retail POS and increased wholesale activity,, as new construction ramped up during the quarter leveraging our deeply develop channels. Our advantaged single-family new construction exposure is driving results of their nature, and our team is working hard to supply increasing demand while navigating cost and supply chain challenges.Much like at Fiberon, consumers are increasingly realizing the benefits of engineered products of a more traditional materials used in exterior doors and outdoor living. These conversion tailwinds will continue to power our doors business well ahead of the market. Our new design tools, innovation in performance of functionality and the ability to customize through technologically driven skins and coatings have expanded opportunity set in this product category, where we have deepened our position as the No.1 exterior door brand.Turning to Security, sales grew further at this past quarter, as commercial international markets continue to open. Master Lock is continuing to demonstrate improved performance, as it progresses its transformation under its new leadership. We are employing Fortune Brands advantage capabilities within our security operations to drive growth and operating margin improvement.In fact securities performance in the past quarter contributed to the success of overall margin progression in the segment versus a year ago. Finally, turning to Cabinets, our cabinets team again delivered excellent performance in the quarter. Sales grew low double-digits for the third quarter in a row, a single-family new construction and bigger ticket R&R increased. With strong growth across product lines at all price points, operating margins expanded by a 180 basis points over prior year to 10.8%.That impressive margin improvement was off of the strong Q1 last year, as new construction activity produced seasonally strong results a year ago. Our Cabinets business continues to demonstrate how our hard work over the past few years produces market beating topline performance at increasing margins. We have considerably changed the way we look at both our current operations and view our future opportunities. Our work in our global low-cost supply chain is adding flexibility and resiliency to the business.We are building a scalable and cost effective network across our platform with increased simplification and commonization driving both operating leverage and bests in class service growing share against a fragmented domestic market and against imports, which are coming in at higher cost and longer lead times. We're seeing growth at both ends of the price spectrum. Our cabinets pivot plan now in the late innings positions our business extremely well to capitalize wherever demand materializes.In the first quarter, we delivered a double-digit growth in both our make-to-order and value-priced categories. In our make-to-order business, we're seeing strong trends as past quarter in the U.S. led by premium price points and a nice return to performance in Canada as that housing market reaccelerates. Our best-in-class dealer network continues to deliver for us.Additionally, our cabinets' team is exploring new omnichannel opportunities and is accelerating investments in e-commerce. Within our value price point cabinets, we continue to gain share while optimizing our operations and offerings. During the quarter, demand was widespread in value cabinets across builder, dealer and retail channels. We made considerable progress in capacity and distribution with investments in the quarter in Mexico, as well as the on-time opening of our new Southeast facility to serve surging demand in Mantra and other value-priced products.We expect another breakout year for our Mantra line in 2021, which serves the market previously addressed by importers with stylish, short lead time product. Our cabinets team has increased share by continuing to win in the market and is doing so on an advantaged replatformed cost base. More opportunity lies ahead and the team is pursuing it with the same figure and tenacity that they have demonstrated over the last few years. We are well on our journey to drive our Cabinets' business to our long-term goal of mid-teens margins.In summary, our teams worked tirelessly to deliver on our purpose fulfilling the dreams of home and we take great pride in our impact on the quality of people's lives within the home. The world is not without challenges or risks, health, safety, or otherwise. The home provides comfort, protection, respite and is a center for human connection whether it'd be work, school, entertaining or generally forming deeper relationships between friends and family. We are central to the role of the home and our pride in that role comes through in our brands, innovation and people every day.In addition to fulfilling the dreams of home, our company is committed to doing its part to help improve the lives of those around us for our environmental, social and governance efforts. Whether it is through our environmentally responsible products, leading safety record or diversity equity and inclusion initiatives we are continually challenging ourselves to raise the bar. I encourage you to visit our website to see our recently released ESG report.Combined with attractive demographics, strong demand and low supply of homes, we expect our long-term multiyear tailwind for housing. As the market expands to the severe gap in housing supply, we expect to scale ahead of that demand and continue to take share consistent with our long track record. Our innovative portfolio of products is targeted at the heart of the market and there's broader channel exposure than ever before.By leveraging our own actions to continuously improve the business and our proving resilience we intend to capture the upside of this multiyear expansion, while managing any volatility that may come our way. With our exceptional team, leading brands, strong channel positions and powerful balance sheet we are uniquely positioned to continue to drive accelerated value creation for our stakeholders. Our updated and improved 2021 outlook reflects the strength of our business with robust growth translated to operating and increased margins while we continue to invest for the long-term.We expect to continue to outperform our markets in 2021 and beyond while fully offsetting inflation and supply chain challenges to produce even stronger results. In addition, our powerful balance sheet positions us to continue to drive incremental value creation. We are excited for what our world-class brands and people can accomplish. With that, I will turn the call over to Pat, who will speak to our financial results. Pat?Patrick Hallinan -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Nick. As a reminder, the majority of my comments will focus on income before charges and gains in order to best reflect ongoing business performance. So let me start with our first quarter results, sales were $1.77 billion, up 26% from a year ago, organic sales growth, excluding the LARSON acquisition was up 19%. Consolidated operating income for the quarter was $262 million up 54% or $92 million compared to the same quarter last year. Total company operating margin was 14.8%, up 270 basis points over the same quarter last year. EPS were a $1.36 for the quarter, up 68% versus $0.81 for the same quarter last year. Our associates focus on safety and outperforming a strong market drove these outstanding results.The momentum of activity in our markets was strong throughout the quarter and remains strong. While we are working hard to service the robust demand across the portfolio, we are also taking action against material and freight inflation and supply chain imbalances. We expect to offset these challenges fully to deliver higher growth and greater profitability than we planned. Our high-performing business model of leading brands and channel positions combined with further deployment of our Fortune Brands advantage drives both incremental investment and increased value to the bottom line for our stakeholders.Now, let me provide more color on our segment results, beginning with Plumbing. Sales for the first quarter were $622 million, up a $153 million or 33% or up 30% adjusting for FX. First quarter growth was up very strong double-digits across all major brands, channels and geographies. Plumbing operating income increased 43% to a $149 million for the first quarter, operating margin for the quarter was 24% reflecting strong volume leverage despite significant investment during the quarter in our brands, strategic priorities and to maintain service level. We expect 2021 margins to be at or above 22% for the full year.Turning to outdoors and security, sales for the first quarter were $462 million, up a $148 million or 47% driven by the addition of LARSON, as well as strong double-digit growth in doors and decking and continued growth in security. On an organic basis, sales were up 15%, we expect all product categories to drive 2021 growth. Door sales were up double-digits in the first quarter driven by consistently strong retail sales and an accelerating new construction market and decking sales were up strong double-digits in the quarter, as our distribution gains achieved new performance levels.Demand in retail and wholesale channels remain strong. We are selling every board we can make we are on pace to bring additional capacity online in the middle of this year and are looking for options to pull forward capacity plans from 2022 and beyond. Security sales continued single-digit growth in the quarter with strength in retail and international markets. Commercial markets showed improvement throughout the quarter and are poised to continue to perform better throughout the remainder of the year.Outdoors and Security's segment operating income was $62 million during the quarter, up 91% over the same quarter last year, driven by the addition of LARSON and performance improvement in doors, decking and security.Segment operating margin increased 310 basis points versus the same quarter last year to 13.5%. Turning to cabinets, sales for the first quarter were $688 million, an increase of 11% over the same quarter in 2020. We continue to experience strong growth of value-priced products and sales of higher-priced make-to-order products returned to double-digit growth in the quarter with positive signal for big ticket R&R reflects consumers' increased desire and ability to invest in their homes.Operating income in the first quarter was $75 million, up 34% or $19 million versus the prior year. Operating margin for the quarter was 10.8%, up a 180 basis points versus the same period a year ago. We expect cabinets to deliver an average second half operating margin of 13% or greater, as we benefit from our efforts to streamline operations and invest to capture additional share gains. Before turning to the balance sheet, I want to take a moment to provide perspective on material and cost inflation in the face of elevated demand and amid a backdrop of an accelerating housing market.We continue to deploy a multitude of tools to mitigate or offset inflation within our businesses. We do this through continuous cost improvement throughout our operations. We enacted major programs during the past year and are furthering those initiatives in 2021. We also employee cost sharing with suppliers where appropriate, finely, when necessary we act via price. Through this combination of actions, we plan to offset fully all inflationary headwinds this year and expect to deliver 2021 margin improvement and remain on an increasing margin trajectory over the next several years.Turning to the balance sheet, our balance sheet remains strong with cash of $356 million net debt of $2.3 billion and our net debt to EBITDA leverage is now at 2.1 times. We ended the first quarter with approximately $755 million of total available liquidity. We have made and we'll continue to make significant investment. We are continuously assessing opportunities to deploy capital strategically, to accelerate growth and stakeholder value creation. We will also look to continue to return capital to shareholders through opportunistic buybacks and our dividend building on the over $1 billion of capital deployed during 2020.I would now like to address our updated market and financial outlook. Given our continued outperformance and strengthening home products market, we are raising our market and financial outlook for the full year of 2021. Based on the expectation that the global market for our products will grow 9% to 11% with the U.S. housing market growing 10% to 12% and within this market forecast, we now expect U.S. new construction growth of 11% to 14% and U.S. R&R growth of 10% to 12%. Based on these assumptions, our revised 2021 full-year sales growth is expected to be 20% to 22% or 13% to 15% on an organic basis. Our full-year operating margin is expected to be around or above 15%.We now expect full year EPS within the range of $5.45 to $5.65 on our before charges and gains basis of which the implied midpoint equates to earnings growth, in excess of 30% over our record year in 2020. Specifically, our outlook for each business as it relates to our updated guidance includes Plumbing net sales growth of 15% to 17%, with operating margins at or above 22%. Outdoors and Security net sales growth of 43% to 47% or 11% to 13% excluding LARSON with segment operating margins up 15% to 16% or approximately 16% to 17% adjusted for purchase accounting and one-time integration expenses.Cabinet net sales growth of 11% to 13%, with operating margins at or above 12%. We expect 2021 free cash flow of approximately $650 million to $700 million, which includes the accelerated investments in capacity and inventory to drive growth across all of our segments. We anticipate a cash conversion rate between 85% and 95%.The revised full year EPS outlook includes the following assumptions. Corporate expenses of about a $104 million and $106 million, interest expense of approximately $82 million to $86 million, a tax rate of between 23% and 24% and average fully diluted shares of approximately $140 million to $141 million. We expect a long runway of fundamental housing growth to result in prolonged market strength for our products. We expect our sales to continue outperforming the market, which will accelerate our margin progression. Our strong balance sheet allows for us to continue to assess further opportunities to deploy capital strategically.We see multiple path of future value creation to pursue for our stakeholders. Our company has never been better positioned to capture these opportunities. Our teams remain committed to driving market beating sales performance and continued operating margin improvement. Our revised 2021 guidance is solidly on the trajectory of the three-year outlook reflected in our updated investor presentation.This outlook contains a compound annual sales growth rate of 8% to 11% and a 2023 operating margin target of 16% to 17% relative to a global market growth CAGAR expectation of 6% to 8%. I will now pass the call back to Dave, to open the call up for questions. Dave?David Barry -- Senior Vice President, Finance and Investor RelationsThanks, Pat. That concludes our prepared remarks on the first quarter. We will now begin taking a limited number of questions. Since there may be a number of you who would like to ask a question, I will ask that you limit your initial questions to two and then reenter the queue to ask additional questions.I will now turn the call back over to the operator to begin the question-and-answer session. Operator, will you please open the line for questions? Thank you.