
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Lilly Quarter Three 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Vice President of Investor Relations, Kevin Hern. Please go ahead.Kevin Hern -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Good morning. Thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly and Company's Q3 2021 earnings call. I'm Kevin Hern, VP of Investor Relations. Joining me on today's call are Dave Ricks, Lilly's Chairman and CEO; Anat Ashkenazi, Chief Financial Officer; Dr. Dan Skovronsky, Chief Scientific and Medical Officer; Anne White, President of Lilly Neuroscience; Jake Van Naarden, CEO of Loxo Oncology at Lilly and President of Lilly Oncology; Patrik Jonsson, President of Lilly Immunology and Lilly USA; and Mike Mason, President of Lilly Diabetes. We're also joined by Lauren Zierke, Kento Ueha and Sara Smith of the Investor Relations team.During this conference call, we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors, including those listed on Slide 3. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is contained in our latest Forms 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q and 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community. It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions. As we transition to our prepared remarks, a reminder that our commentary will focus on non-GAAP financial measures.Now I'll turn the call over to Dave for a summary of our third quarter results.David A. Ricks -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Kevin. Once again, Lilly, had a very strong quarter, growing our newest medicines around the world and continuing to advance significant potential new medicines in the late-stage development, while also building long-term opportunities through early stage investments in technology and progress in early stage programs.Q3 2021 was also a period where the resilience of our company, our people and collaborators were tested by the pandemic, and again they rose to the challenge. I want to personally recognize and thank my Lilly teammates for delivering such a strong overall performance, innovating to maintain pipeline velocity, running our plants to meet the rapidly growing demand of medicines and continuing to serve our customers, whether it be in person or online.Turning to our strategic deliverables on Slide 4. Q3 revenue grew 18% compared to Q3 2020 or 17% in constant currency. This performance was driven entirely by volume. Volume growth was 17 percentage points. When excluding COVID-19 therapies, which includes revenue from COVID-19 antibodies and sales of Olumiant for the treatment of COVID-19, revenue grew an estimated 11% for the quarter and year-to-date. Revenue attributable to our newer medicines grew over 35% and now represents nearly 60% of our core business this quarter; an important indicator for our long-term growth potential.Our non-GAAP gross margin was 79% in Q3 or 79.3% excluding for the impact of foreign exchange on international inventories sold. Excluding this FX impact, our gross margin decreased by approximately 60 basis points compared to last year. Our non-GAAP operating margin was 30.5%, representing an improvement of over 400 basis points compared to Q3 of last year and over 100 basis points of sequential improvement from Q2 of this year.

 



We had a number of significant pipeline milestones since our last earnings call in August, including the FDA approvals for Verzenio in certain people with high-risk early breast cancer and for Jardiance in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim in heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. Regulatory submissions for tirzepatide for type 2 diabetes in the U.S., to which we applied a Priority Review Voucher, as well as the EU, and Jardiance in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. We initiated a rolling submission in the U.S. for donanemab in early Alzheimer's disease and had positive Phase 3 readouts for lebrikizumab in atopic dermatitis.We also continue to augment our pipeline with future [Phonetic] development opportunities as we continue to leverage external innovation to build our discovery capabilities with a focus on new modalities at Lilly. In Q3, we announced a research collaboration and licensing agreement with Lycia Therapeutics to utilize their proprietary protein degradation technology. Finally, on financials, we distributed nearly $800 million to shareholders via the dividend this quarter.Moving to Slides 5 and 6, you'll see a list of key events since our Q2 earnings call, including issuing the company's first sustainability bond with proceeds allocated toward environmental projects, including pollution prevention, energy efficiency and renewable energy, as well as social projects to increase access to essential services, and socioeconomic advancement and empowerment.We announced a series of leadership and organizational changes this quarter. Recent positive data readouts this year led us to the natural decision to increase our focus on immunology and neuroscience and to unify the Loxo Oncology and Lilly Oncology organizations. We believe these changes enhance our ability to execute on a broad range of exciting commercial and pipeline opportunities. I'd like to welcome Jake Van Naarden to Lilly's Executive Committee and look forward to Anne, Patrik and Jake continuing their leadership in their new roles. They'll be focused on increasing our competitiveness in their therapeutic areas and growing our existing medicines, while also launching our late-stage pipeline of new medicines, which could benefit patients across a diverse set of medical conditions. Similarly, I'm grateful for Ilya's continued leadership and look forward to him leading our growing international business. Finally, I'd like to thank Chito Zulueta for his impact on our company across more than three decades of his commitment to patients, to development of our industry-leading commercial capabilities, and his relentless focus on execution and mentorship of countless Lilly leaders. Chito, thank you for your service to our company.We have a deep leadership bench here at Lilly. They're smart, they're energetic and experienced, and I know they are as excited as I am to take Lilly to another level in the decade ahead.Now, I will turn the call over to Anat to review our Q3 results and provide an update on our financial guidance for 2021.Anat Ashkenazi -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Dave. Slide 7 and 8 summarize the financial performance in the third quarter and year-to-date. I'll focus my comments on non-GAAP performance. Revenue increased 18% this quarter compared to Q3 2020 or 11% excluding the items Dave mentioned earlier, representing strong momentum for our core business, despite the impact of Alimta's OUS patent expiry. We continue to be pleased with the strong volume growth across key brands like Trulicity, Taltz, Verzenio and Jardiance as our key growth products made up nearly 60% of our core business during the quarter.Gross margin as a percent of revenue declined 10 basis points to 79% in Q3. Favorable product mix, excluding COVID-19 therapies and a favorable impact from foreign exchange rate on international inventories sold were more than offset by lower gross margin on COVID-19 therapies.Total operating expenses grew 8% this quarter compared to the same quarter last year. Marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased 1%, while R&D expenses increased 17%, driven by significant investments in exciting late-stage pipeline opportunities, including donanemab, pirtobrutinib and tirzepatide. We also invested approximately $50 million in research and development for COVID-19 therapies in Q3, bringing our total COVID-19 R&D investments to approximately $350 million year-to-date.Operating income increased 37% compared to Q3 2020 and operating income as a percent of revenue was 30.5% for the quarter; an increase of 420 basis points compared to the prior year, with sequential growth for second straight quarter. This increase was driven by revenue growth outpacing expense growth, and we expect continued margin expansion in the fourth quarter. Other income and expense was expense of $7 million for this quarter compared to income of $10 million in Q3 2020.Our effective tax rate was 14.3%; a decrease of 70 basis points compared with the same quarter last year. The lower effective tax rate in the third quarter of 2021 was driven by a mix of earnings and lower tax jurisdictions, partially offset by a decrease in net discrete tax benefit compared to the same period in 2020. At the bottom line, we delivered strong growth as earnings per share increased 38% in Q3 2021.On Slide 9, we quantify the effect of price, rate and volume on revenue growth and we're encouraged by the growth seen across the world. This quarter, U.S. revenue grew 26% compared to the third quarter of 2020. Adjusting for revenue from COVID-19 therapies, revenue grew 14% in the U.S. This increase, driven largely by volume, was led by Trulicity, Taltz, Jardiance and Verzenio. The higher net realized price in the U.S. this quarter was driven by lower utilization in the 340B segment, unfavorable changes to estimates for rebates and discounts for Trulicity in the third quarter of 2020, and modest list price increases, partially offset by increased rebates to maintain broad patient access for our medicines. Our year-to-date U.S. net price decrease of 1% is in line with the low-to-mid single-digit guidance we gave last December and our full year outlook is consistent with those expectations.Our 340B limited distribution program began September 2020 and so the fourth quarter of 2021 will be the first full quarter where its impact will also be included in the base period when calculating the year-over-year price changes in the U.S. Given the increase in variability in payer mix, we continue to expect quarterly variability in reported U.S. net price changes across our business.Moving to Europe. Revenue grew 3% in constant currency. Excluding the impact of the first full quarter of loss of exclusivity for Alimta, revenue grew 16% in constant currency, driven primarily by volume growth for Trulicity, Taltz and Verzenio. We are pleased with the momentum of our business in Europe and expect continued growth excluding Alimta.In Japan, revenue decreased 6% in constant currency, driven primarily by the decline of post-patent products. Revenue in Japan continues to be negatively impacted by decreased demand for several products that have lost market exclusivity, now including Alimta, as well as by the COVID-19 pandemic. Importantly, our key growth products grew 12% in Q3 in Japan. We expect improved revenue growth in Japan moving forward based on the uptake of these newer products.In China, revenue grew 30% in constant currency, primarily driven by continued uptake of Tyvyt and Trulicity. We're excited by the significant growth we're seeing in China with sales of new medicines continuing to drive growth there.Revenue in the rest of the world increased 16% in constant currency, driven primarily by our key growth products. At the bottom of the slide is the price rate and volume effect on revenue for our September year-to-date results, which shows double-digit growth across all major geographies except Japan.As shown on Slide 10, our key growth products continue to drive strong worldwide volume growth. These products drove 15 percentage point of growth this quarter and continue to drive our overall performance and outlook.Slide 11 highlights the contributions of our key growth products. In total, these brands generated nearly $3.9 billion in revenue this quarter and made up 58% of our core business revenue. We are encouraged by the strength of our key growth products in Q3, collectively up over 35% compared to the same period in prior year. Trulicity, Verzenio and Jardiance, all continue to outgrow their respective classes and we're pleased with Taltz growth, driven by increased access.On Slide 12 we provide an update on capital allocation. In the first nine months of 2021, we invested $7 billion to drive our future growth through a combination of R&D expenditures, business development outlays and capital investments. In addition, we returned over $2.3 billion to shareholders in dividends and have repurchased $500 million in stock. We will continue to fund the growth of our key products and recent launches, invest in our pipeline, seek external innovation to augment our future growth prospects, and return capital to shareholders.Turning to our 2021 financial guidance on Slide 13. We are updating our GAAP and non-GAAP guidance. We're increasing the full year revenue outlook by $200 million at the top end of the range, and $400 million at the lower end of the range to reflect additional COVID-19 antibody revenue and the outlook for our core business. COVID-19 antibody revenue expectations are roughly $1.3 billion based on the existing U.S. government purchase agreement for additional doses of etesevimab in Q3 and Q4. The net impact of these changes is an updated revenue range of $27.2 billion to $27.6 billion, up from the previous range of $26.8 billion to $27.4 billion.Our outlook for GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin percent remains unchanged. For research and development and SG&A, our guidance ranges remain unchanged. As we noted last quarter, investments in promising R&D opportunities and exciting potential launches are expected to push us to the top end of our guidance range for operating expenses. Our reported and non-GAAP operating margin guidance is unchanged. Excluding the impact of COVID-19 antibodies, non-GAAP operating margin remains approximately 31%. Our non-GAAP ranges for other income and expense and our expected tax rate remains unchanged as well.On a reported basis, other income and expense is now expected to be expense in the range of $250 million to $150 million, reflecting the impact of the charges associated with the repurchase of debt and net mark-to-market losses on investments in equity securities in the third quarter of 2021.The 2021 effective tax rate is now expected to be approximately 11% on a reported basis, reflecting the tax impact of the charges associated with the repurchase of debt and acquired IPR&D, as well as unfavorable mark-to-market adjustments on investments in equity securities in the third quarter of 2021.Finally, the non-GAAP range for earnings per share has been raised to $7.95 to $8.05 while the GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $6.38 to $6.48. At our Investors Day in December, we will share our initial 2022 guidance.Today, before I turn the call over to Dan for the R&D update, I'd like to provide a few reminders on the pushes and pulls across the P&L as you begin thinking about next year. In Q3, we saw the initial impact of Alimta's OUS patent expiry in Europe and Japan. Next year we will see its full year impact as well as the U.S. patent expiry with limited launches from a single generic company in Q1 before the full launch of generic entrants starting in Q2.As for revenue from COVID-19 therapies, we intend to reflect, in guidance, our expectations related to signed purchase agreements for COVID-19 antibodies. Currently, we expect minimal revenue from COVID-19 therapies in 2022, leading to more difficult year-over-year comparisons. As we do this year, we will provide commentary on our financial, excluding the impact of revenue and certain expenses from COVID-19 therapies to enable more helpful year-over-year comparison of the performance of our core business.Absent major U.S. drug pricing reform, our 2022 and mid-term outlook continues to be mid-single-digit net price erosion in the U.S. and globally as the impact of lower utilization of 340B segment move into the base period as we enter Q4 2021.We continue to invest in our bright future as we advance promising R&D opportunities and scale up to support exciting potential launches from our late-stage pipeline. While these investments may pressure our operating margin in the near term, they are critical to maximizing pipeline opportunities to help sustain top tier revenue growth and operating margin expansion over the mid-to-long-term.Now, I'll turn over the call to Dan to provide an update on our pipeline.Daniel M. Skovronsky -- Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific and Medical OfficerThanks, Anat. Like 2020 before, 2021 continues to be a very productive year for R&D at Lilly. Before I get into the broader portfolio update, I'll highlight several updates from our late-stage pipeline. Starting with tirzepatide. We shared detailed results from tirzepatide's SURPASS-4 study at EASD this quarter. SURPASS-4 is the largest and longest SURPASS trial completed to date and we were encouraged by the continued hemoglobin A1C and weight control which participants experienced even past the initial 52-week treatment period and continuing up to two years.Looking at Slide 14. This shows the change from baseline in hemoglobin A1C over time during the study. A1C reduction plateaued by roughly 24 weeks and was maintained at 52 weeks and thereafter to 104 weeks across all three tirzepatide doses, while in the insulin glargine comparator arm, A1C began to increase after 52 weeks. Durability of A1C control is a challenge for type 2 diabetes treatments. While the 104-week data isn't a definitive answer as to whether tirzepatide could potentially offer even longer term durable blood glucose control, these data certainly are encouraging.Moving to Slide 15. As you can see, weight loss plateaued at approximately 52 weeks and was maintained thereafter such that at two years, weight difference at the highest dose was approximately 15% compared to insulin glargine. We've seen in previous incretin therapy trials conducted with GLP-1s, a further increased impact on weight reduction in participants with obesity without type 2 diabetes compared to studies in participants who do have type 2 diabetes, such as this one. It will be interesting to see if this trend also extends to the dual agonism of tirzepatide, which has demonstrated weight reductions in type 2 diabetes trials beyond what has been shown by GLP-1s to date. We clearly are excited about the weight loss potential here and we believe the data to date bode well for upcoming readouts in obesity, starting with SURMOUNT-1, which reads out next year.Tirzepatide represents a new class of medicines and we're focused on continuing our significant investment for patients with type 2 diabetes, obesity and related metabolic disorders who may benefit from tirzepatide.Moving to Slide 16. Today, we announced the U.S. submission for tirzepatide in type 2 diabetes and that we used a Priority Review Voucher with the intention of bringing this investigational treatment to patients as quickly as possible. We are delighted at the continued progress for this novel dual agonist incretin, and hope to obtain approval in the U.S. by the middle of next year.Moving to donanemab. We have several important updates for this program. First, in the U.S., we initiated a rolling BLA submission to the FDA for accelerated approval in early Alzheimer's disease. We intend to complete the submission in the next few months and expect regulatory action in the second half of 2022. We've also completed the original planned enrollment of 1,500 participants for TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2. And based on the pre-specified 18-month primary endpoint, expect to have topline results by the middle of 2023. We've added a separate single-arm addendum for safety exposures to TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2, which has already enrolled more than 300 patients and is continuing to enroll rapidly. This addendum will provide us with additional safety data to support the rolling submission.Moving to TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 3. This is a prevention study for cognitively unimpaired individuals who already have Alzheimer's brain pathology but don't yet have clinical symptoms. We're excited to report that we have already initiated screening. This pioneering trial has multiple novel elements to reduce research subject burden, including the use of our phospho tau217 blood assay currently in development to help detect Alzheimer's disease pathology in the patient screening process, video call technology for assessing cognitive function in the subjects' home and a large network of infusion centers that allows subjects to select the site most convenient to them in a decentralized clinical trial paradigm.We also announced today our plans to conduct a head-to-head Phase 3 study comparing donanemab to aducanumab to assess superiority of brain amyloid plaque clearance in early symptomatic Alzheimer's disease. The co-primary endpoints will evaluate complete amyloid plaque clearance as measured by Florbetapir F18 PET scan and will assess superiority on brain amyloid plaque clearance in the total population, and also the intermediate tau sub-population. This study, TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 4, is expected to begin enrollment this year and we expect to share primary endpoint data in the second half of 2022.We're encouraged with the progress we've made with donanemab and with its potential to positively impact patients with high unmet medical need. We have, of course, followed progress in the Alzheimer's disease landscape since our last call and are watching closely as CMS's National Coverage Determination process plays out. We're committed to facing the challenges of effectively communicating donanemab's clinical data and value proposition and to ensuring that the diagnostic in patient management ecosystems are adequately well prepared.Given the current environment, we think it's reasonable to have modest expectations for the scale of patient impact for anti-amyloid therapies available under Accelerated Approval prior to the readout of their definitive Phase 3 data. Assuming potential Accelerated Approval for donanemab in the second half of 2022, our expected TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 2 Phase 3 readout by mid 2023 would follow quickly, meaning the window of Accelerated Approval without definitive Phase 3 data is likely to be brief. Assuming positive Phase 3 results, we should be confident in the mid- and long-term opportunity for donanemab if approved.Moving on to Verzenio. In line with the expectations I outlined last quarter, we were pleased with Verzenio's recent FDA approval as the first and only CDK4/6 inhibitor in combination with endocrine therapy for adult patients with HR+, HER2-, node positive, early breast cancer who are at high risk of recurrence with a Ki-67 index of greater than or equal to 20% as detected by an FDA-approved test. This approval in the adjuvant setting represents the first new addition to endocrine therapy in adjuvant treatment of HR+, HER2- breast cancer in nearly two decades. We are delighted to bring this important new treatment option to patients.Also, we recently shared updated data from the entire monarchE study at the ESMO Virtual Plenary Meeting and co-published these data in the Annals of Oncology. These data, which reflect additional follow-up since our last public presentation, highlights the robustness of the effect size we're seeing for Verzenio in the adjuvant setting. Notably, with a median follow-up of 27 months, we were pleased to see both IDFS and DRFS benefit extend beyond the two-year study treatment period. These data are not only important for patients, but also to help dispel concerns that the curves would come back together over time. We're clearly observing -- we've clearly observed continued separation of the curves, if not expanding separation.Since the adjuvant approval two weeks ago, there have been questions regarding why the FDA approval applied only to a subset of the study population. As previously communicated, overall survival was a secondary outcome measure for the monarchE study and an important component of the FDA's review. While we do not typically publish immature overall survival data, we feel it's valuable to address these important questions about the difference between the enrolled study population and the approved indication. As a result, while the overall survival data remain immature, we do plan to publish the OS data from the additional follow-up analysis with cut off of April 1, 2021 in a medical journal in the coming days. These data will show what we have observed thus far for overall survival trends in the ITT population compared to the approved population. We'll continue to follow patients in the ITT population for more mature overall survival data. If a positive OS trend emerges in the ITT population, we plan to work with regulators to expand our adjuvant indication.Importantly, the collective results from Verzenio's clinical development program have demonstrated a differentiated CDK4/6 inhibitor profile and we look forward to continued investment in Verzenio for breast and prostate cancer and are excited about the opportunity to serve more patients.Slide 17 shows select pipeline opportunities as of October 22 and Slide 18 shows potential key events for the year. There have been several important developments since our last earnings call and I'll cover these by therapeutic area.In oncology, in addition to the exciting news for Verzenio, we continue our investment in pirtobrutinib's Phase 3 program with an additional study starting in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, including fixed duration pirtobrutinib plus venetoclax and rituximab in relapsed or refractory patients. We plan to start a study in first-line treatment compared to bendamustine plus rituximab before year-end. We prioritized this first line study, rather than the head-to-head study evaluating superiority compared to ibrutinib as we think this first-line study could provide a faster pathway to bring pirtobrutinib to patients in the first-line setting. We expect the head-to-head ibrutinib CLL study to start in the first half of 2022. We look forward to sharing updated data set from the Phase 1/2 BRUIN study at a medical meeting later this year. We plan to provide a regulatory update for pirtobrutinib at our Investor Day in December.Imlunestrant, our oral SERD also moved into Phase 3 with the start of its monotherapy study compared to exemestane or fulvestrant.Finally, we also publicly identified and presented pre-clinical characterization for two new agents at the Molecular Targets meeting this month: LOXO-783, which is a highly mutant-selective allosteric PI3K alpha inhibitor; and LOXO-435, which is a highly isoform-selective FGFR3 inhibitor. We look forward to filing INDs for both programs in 2022 and subsequently moving them into the clinic.In diabetes, in addition to the tirzepatide update, we obtained U.S. approval for Jardiance in HFrEF, presented detailed results from the EMPEROR-Preserved study at the European Society of Cardiology and submitted for HFpEF in the U.S. and Europe. We're excited about the opportunity Jardiance has to improve outcomes for patients across type 2 diabetes, heart failure and chronic kidney disease. We also started Phase 2 studies for our GLP-1 non-peptide agonist in collaboration with Chugai in type 2 diabetes and in obesity, and look forward to sharing some Phase 1 data from this molecule in December.In immunology, we were delighted to have multiple positive Phase 3 readouts for lebrikizumab in atopic dermatitis, and look forward to the readout of the maintenance data from the ADVOCATE-1 and 2 studies in the first half of next year, ahead of global submissions expected by the end of 2022. We're pleased with our progress in immunology this year with positive Phase 3 readouts for mirikizumab and lebrikizumab, and look forward to sharing more about our next generation of early phase immunology assets in December.In neurodegeneration, our anti-tau antibody zagotenemab recently concluded its Phase 2 study in early symptomatic Alzheimer's. Zagotenemab failed to meet the primary endpoint and was unable to modulate tau spread in the brain. The placebo population progressed as expected. While this negative outcome was disappointing and we're discontinuing development for zagotenemab, we remain committed to tau as a high conviction target in Alzheimer's disease and plan to continue studying tau biology, including inhibition of tau aggregation with a small molecule OGA inhibitor, currently in the clinic.In the pain therapeutic area, in collaboration with Pfizer, we discontinued the global clinical development program for tanezumab following receipt of a Complete Response Letter from the FDA for tanezumab in osteoarthritis pain and a negative opinion adopted by the CHMP.And finally, the FDA expanded the Emergency Use Authorization for bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together to include post-exposure prophylaxis in certain individuals for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infection.To recap, Q3 was another positive quarter for R&D at Lilly, continuing the positive momentum we've seen with a steady stream of significant pipeline advancements over the last couple of years as we move closer toward our goal of delivering more first or best-in-class treatment options to patients in areas of unmet need.Now, I'll turn the call back to Dave for some closing remarks.David A. Ricks -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerOkay. Thanks, Dan. Before we go to Q&A, let me sum up the progress we've made during the quarter. We have seen continued strength in our core business through the first nine months of the year with double-digit volume-driven revenue growth, net of COVID-19 therapies and strong performance across key brands. We're pleased to see sequential and year-over-year operating margin expansion, as well as strong non-GAAP earnings growth. We have made significant progress developing new medicines and Q3 was another important quarter for our pipeline as we announced the submission of tirzepatide in type 2 diabetes, the initiation of a rolling submission for donanemab in the U.S. for early Alzheimer's disease, key lifecycle approvals and submissions for Verzenio and Jardiance and positive Phase 3 readouts for lebrikizumab. We returned nearly $800 million to shareholders through dividends in Q3, reflecting confidence in the ongoing strength of our business.As we move toward the close of 2021, we are confident in our long-term growth prospects. While the past year has seen tremendous advances in our late-stage pipeline, at our Investor Day in December, we look forward to sharing information with you regarding the next generation of assets that we believe will enable us to sustain the flow of innovative medicines to patients and augment our future growth prospects.Now, I will turn the call over to Kevin to moderate the Q&A session.Kevin Hern -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThanks, Dave. We'd like to take questions from as many callers as possible, so we ask that you limit your questions to two per caller. Louise, please provide the instructions for the Q&A session and then we're ready for the first caller.