  OperatorThis ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Salesforce fiscal 2022 third quarter's results conference call. [Operator instructions] I would like to hand over the conference to your speaker, Mr. Evan Goldstein, senior vice president of investor relations. Sir, you may begin.Evan Goldstein -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Jeff. Hello, everyone, and thanks for joining us for our fiscal '22 third quarter conference call. I'm Evan Goldstein, senior vice president of Investor Relations. Our press release, SEC filings, and a replay of today's call can be found on our IR website at www.salesforce.com/investor. With me on the call today is Marc Benioff, chair, and co-CEO; Bret Taylor, vice chair, and co-CEO; Amy Weaver, chief financial officer; and Gavin Patterson, chief revenue officer. As a reminder, our commentary today will primarily be in non-GAAP terms. Reconciliation between our GAAP and non-GAAP results in guidance can be found in our earnings and press release. Some of our comments today may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions.In particular, our expectations around the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on our business, acquisition, results of operations, and financial condition, and that of our customers and partners are uncertain and subject to change. Should any of these materialize or should our assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual company results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. The description of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and other factors that could affect our financial results is included our SEC filings, including our most recent report on Form 10-K. With that, let me hand the call to Marc. Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer

 



 Well, thanks so much, Evan, and I hope everyone on the call and all your families had a wonderful Thanksgiving. And a Happy Hanukkah, everyone, celebrating the festival of lights this week. Now, you know, this year, I'm grateful for many things. But I'll have to tell you, I'm very grateful for my good friend, who I'm sitting here with, Bret Taylor. And Bret, congratulations on becoming the co-CEO of Salesforce.Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Marc. It's really an honor of a lifetime. Thank you, thanks to the board, and most importantly, thank you to our customers and trailblazers. I'm honored to be a part of you in this next-chapter Salesforce.

 



Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Well, Bret, you know, I first met you, you were at Google, you did an amazing job with Google Maps and you started your own company then that was acquired by Facebook. You became the CTO of Facebook and then you left Facebook and started in another company, and Salesforce was very lucky to buy that company, Quip. And then you've had an amazing run here over the last five, five and a half years at Salesforce. And most recently, as our chief operating officer and now as co-CEO. We couldn't be more grateful for you and your leadership, and congratulations, and it's just amazing to watch you grow.Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Well, Marc, I don't know if you know that you were the first person I called when I started that second company because I wanted your mentorship and advice. So, for me, this partnership was really the culmination of a decades-long friendship, and I'm just grateful. So, excited for this next chapter.Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Well, it's super exciting. I'll tell you, you know, we're going to get into this, Bret. But, you know, you've had a lot of great experiences with customers this quarter and also with all of our Ohana. And, you know, just give us so one insight, end of the quarter. Tell us about the world and what's one thing you learned this quarter that really has surprised your -- like -- you -- that you can share with all of us.Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Well, actually, Gavin Patterson and I, we took a trip to Europe together. We visited London, Paris, Amsterdam, Frankfurt. And, you know, there's -- this pandemic is a roller coaster. But what I heard from the more than 60 customers we talked to on that trip, there's a sense of really moving forward. You know, you have, you know, to take into account health and safety. We have to, you know, really think about this pandemic as an endemic but people are sort of -- yeah, people are moving forward, they're focused on growth, and they're focused on this new normal. And I have a very optimistic view of the future despite this roller coaster with pandemic.Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer It is a roller coaster with pandemic. You're absolutely right. Well, it's been an amazing six quarters. And I'll tell you, the last six quarters, well, that's -- they've been unlike anything Salesforce has ever been through, that I've ever been through. And, you know, we -- I would say this is, you know, things are still changing and transforming. We're almost in a pandemic age, and we're kind of getting used to what it means to be inside of a pandemic. And yet, at the same time, Salesforce has never been more successful. And I think, Bret, when you look at the financial results, I'm sure you'd agree, you know, that this was an amazing third quarter. Revenue in the quarter was $6.86 billion, up 27 percent year over year and it's really driven by all these amazing products. But really, by this incredible customer success, and we can see it we're No. 1 again for the eighth year in a row, you know, in CRM according to IDC. It's really exciting. Were you surprised to see that?Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Not surprised at all, but it's something I look forward to every year every time those numbers come out.Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Well, isn't it just awesome? And, you know, our sales and service clouds, well, they've become massive individual businesses at this point and generating more than $6 billion each. I mean, that's bigger than a lot of cloud companies that I know of by themselves. And they're continuing to grow into double digits. It's amazing, I mean, sales cloud is amazing this quarter. And operating in the margin in the quarter was also very good at 19.8 percent. I mean, that exceeded my expectations, and we delivered $404 million in operating cash flow, up 19 percent year over year. And now, for fiscal year '22, we're raising our revenue guide again. Just raised it at an Investor Day a couple of weeks ago. And now, we're raising it again to $26.4 billion at the high end of the range, representing 24 percent projected growth year over year. You know, that's a $100 million raise in Q2 when we initiated guidance for revenue in December of last year. We've now raised guidance since that initial initiation. $850 million, pretty awesome. And we're delighted to raise our full-year operating margin once again to 18.6 percent. You know, we have, obviously, a new team with a new structure now. We're going to do world, we're talking about that. But we have an incredible new model, and it's really reflected in its incredible operating margin performance. Really for this year and also the operating margin guide for next year as well, and this is really an incredible reflection of this new way that we have -- the new way we're thinking and how we're driving and leading Salesforce. And as we shared at our Investor Day in September, we're expecting fiscal year '23 revenue guidance to $31.8 billion, that's the high end of our range and operating margin at 20 percent. Now, as everyone knows, no other software company of our size and scale is really performing at this level. We know that because we're talking to other cloud CEOs every day. And I'll tell you, I couldn't be more proud of our Ohana and that Salesforce is soon going to enter the Fortune 100. We've only -- we've really -- if, you know, you think about it, we only spent two years for the $20 billion. I think about how long I was waiting to get into the $20 billion in revenue for Salesforce and well, it dazzled me. Kind of like now, we're talking about beating the $30 billion and I'm kind of like -- wow, I wonder, wow, this is amazing. How long are we going to end up in the $30 billion? So, you've got to enjoy every moment because it goes fast. And you look at the growth, and I really think it's all about this customer success. It's been awesome. I know we're going to tell some great stories here on the call. LVMH and VMware and ADT and so many of our customers, and we're hearing some great stories from Slack customers too. I'm looking forward to Bret telling you a couple of great stories. I even had a great story yesterday from a friend of mine who is at a check-in counter for an airline, and they were using Slack entirely to make the reservation and book the tickets. Incredible story with this company. So, well, I guess all of this isn't just an overnight success story for Salesforce. We're doing it now almost a quarter of a century, and it's been a great quarter. All right. Well, Bret, congratulations. And why don't you take it from here?Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Oh, thank you, Marc. You know, as Marc said, we had another phenomenal quarter, driven by our new operating model, our new management team, and a product portfolio that's just increasingly relevant to every company looking to thrive in this new world. Through this pandemic, our customer success has fueled our success. We have hired more than 30,000 people remotely. We've launched more products than we ever have before, and we've connected with more customers than we ever have before. We've also proven that we can come together safely in person. We just did Dreamforce in San Francisco a couple of months ago. We're doing Dreamforce in New York.Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer That's going to be amazing, right?Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer It's amazing.Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Might as well have another Dreamforce next week. Why not?Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Dreamforce all year long, Marc. And we also have opened 65 of our offices. And, you know, as I mentioned, Gavin and I took that trip to Europe, talked to over 60 customers, and really interesting to see a wide range of industry is going through different issues whether it's the supply chain or the great resignation. But there's one theme in all those conversations. Every customer reinforces that work is not somewhere you go but something you do. Every single company I spoke with is building their digital headquarters because they know their teams need to be successful from their home or from this office in this new era of hybrid work. And Customer 360 and Slack are powering this transformation for companies in every industry in every region of the world, and you can really see it in our results. In the quarter, we saw strong growth across regions. Twenty-three percent in the Americas, 38 percent in EMEA, and 26 percent in APAC. And what really stands out to me, Marc is the strength of our core organic CRM business. Sales -- Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer That is amazing, right? It's actually sales and service cloud together.Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Well, sales cloud has accelerated to 17 percent year-over-year growth. As Marc mentioned, now exceeding the $6 billion business just like service cloud. And service cloud, which is actually continuing to grow above 20 percent year over year.Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Yeah. That's just awesome. Congratulations. That was just beyond my expectations.Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Yeah. It really shows the strength in our core organic business, and it's just phenomenal to see this kind of growth at that kind of scale. And there's nothing like the start of the holiday shopping season, which started last week, to make me appreciate just how mission-critical our commerce and marketing clouds are on Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Cyber Week runs on Salesforce for the world's greatest retailers. What we saw was just incredible. So, commerce cloud process more than 100 million orders in November, powering the shopping experiences for brands like Ralph Lauren, Puma, Crocs, LVMH. And get this, Marc, this year, we have sent over a trillion messages from our marketing cloud. And in Cyber Week alone, we delivered 40 billion messages, up 34 percent year over year.Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Incredible.Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer And yet, we're lapping the pandemic. Last year, digital is the only way people are shopping, and we're growing 34 percent on top of that. Our message platform -- Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer And also, you have to give a call out, you know, our reliability because, you know, both of us went through some very difficult moments in the weekend getting calls from customers who are not using our marketing cloud but are good customers of ours because products that they chose from other vendors were not working on, you know, Black Friday and Cyber Monday and we're like, wow, we were just so grateful to all of our Ohana for the tremendous performance they delivered over the weekend.Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Well, I just want to give a special thank you to every member of Salesforce, particularly the engineering teams.Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Absolutely.Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer To get that kind of reliability when so much of our customers' business is happening over a day or a weekend, it's just crucial that these systems stay up. And I'm so proud of the team and, hopefully, some of those customers will become customers of marketing cloud next year.Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer I hope so. I hope so.Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer You know, and one thing I really want to call out is this move toward mobile commerce continued. Mobile push notifications set for our marketing cloud grew over 94 percent year over year, but we're just seeing the smartphone continue to transform commerce. All-in, our commerce and marketing clouds grew 25 percent year over year in the third quarter, continuing an amazing 20-month run as the global economy continues to digitize. I also want to talk about Slack. So, Slack outperformed our expectations in the first full quarter as a part of the Salesforce family. The number of customers on Slack who spent over $100,000 was up 44 percent year over year. And the adoption of Slack Connect was up an astonishing 176 percent year over year. Slack is not just a product, Slack is a network, and it's just incredible to see that growth. Slack also continues to innovate as an -- at an unbelievable pace. Slack Huddles, with the Slack's new real-time audio capabilities, is already used weekly by over a third of Slack users. and Slack Clips, the new asynchronous video capability are being played nearly 1 million times a week. And this month, at Slack Frontiers, which I hope all of you have watched, and if you haven't, you can watch it online. Stewart and the team announced the next generation of Slack's platform, and it's going to truly transform the way companies think about workflows and automation.Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Well, I think that that is definitely what I saw firsthand where I was like how can it be that an airline is basically front-ending their entire system with Slack. That's a shock to me.Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Slack is the system of engagement for every workflow, every application, and every person in your brand. It's really an amazing platform. There's an -- absolutely watch Slack Frontiers if you haven't seen it. It'll -- I think it'll blow your mind.Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Well, it's pretty cool. What an incredible new part of our portfolio.Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Production, Slack has already transformed the way we work at Salesforce. Since we've deployed Slack internally, we send 46 percent fewer emails. And in the last 30 days alone, our employees have sent nearly 60 million Slack messages and conducted 500,000 Slack Huddles. We run Salesforce on Slack. And every CEO in every board I talked to is focused on how they can succeed in this era of flexible work. According to Slack's research, 93 percent of workers are looking for flexibility when they work and 76 percent are looking for flexibility where they work. Companies need to connect their employees, their partners, their customers from anywhere because we all know we're not going to be in the office five days a week.Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Right. It really flies in the face of all of these kinds of, you know, you hear companies like CEOs say, oh, everyone has to come back in the office now. This is a mandate.Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Marc, you know what happens when they say that?Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer What?Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Their employees leave and go to the company next door.Marc Benioff -- Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Well, you know, I have to be very careful because when I say like on a broadcast television or to POD prints, hey, employees are going to have flexibility in how they work and if they're going to have a digital headquarters and have a physical headquarters, going to mix and match, they're going to, you know, they're going to move around a little bit, I get phone calls. And it just -- it's just -- it's so contrary to what we see in our own business.Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer So, or our offices aren't going away. It's just that your digital headquarters is going to be more important because it is truly the infrastructure that connects all of it and -- especially in this new normal. And Slack and Customer 360 together are really powering this transformation. You can see in the results of the third quarter for Slack, of the $280 million of revenue, $30 million have had guidance. Retailers like Saax and innovative companies like the Southeast Asian ride-sharing and food delivery app, Grab, they're relying on Slack every day to collaborate, to automate workflows, and to connect with their partners. And what's exciting to me, Marc, is the deep product innovations we're building between Slack and Customer 360 are already driving success for our customers. I had a great time working with VMware's new CEO, Raghu Raghuram, this quarter as he spun VMware out of Dell. And Raghu's team is already using Slack and service cloud for case forming to decrease the time to resolution for their customers. I could not be more excited for the momentum we've seen in the Slack business, and in particular, Slack's integration into Salesforce. As Marc said, we're in a new world. We have a new operating model that's driving durable growth. And our team continues to deliver incredible success for our customers during these unprecedented times. Our core business is stronger than ever, and it's experiencing incredible growth at scale. Slack and Customer 360 have never been more relevant and were playing a pivotal role in supporting our customers' next phase of growth. And I'm excited to hand it over to Gavin to bring this to light and talk about what he's seeing with our customers around the globe. Gavin?Gavin Patterson -- Chief Revenue Officer Thanks, Bret, and I'd like to add my congratulations on your promotion. So -- Bret Taylor -- Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Gavin.Gavin Patterson -- Chief Revenue Officer As Marc and Bret said, we are in a new world, and I've seen it through the eyes of our customers, which I've recently visited -- been visiting in New York, San Francisco, Frankfurt, Paris, Amsterdam, Zurich, Middle East, and of course, London. I am very excited by the early results of how our new operating model is playing out, the strength of our core business is incredible, and the power of Salesforce Customer 360 and Slack together is creating the digital HQ that is enabling our customers to get back to growth. And as Bret said, Salesforce has never been more relevant. In the quarter, we saw strong growth in every region, especially in the Americas. We grew relationships with Amazon, Builders FirstSource, IQVIA, Sunbelt Rentals, Tapestry, and so many more. In EMEA, we deepened relationships with incredible brands like SENIA, [Inaudible]. And in APAC, we have significant wins with Foxtel, Fujitsu, Hitachi, and the New Zealand Ministry of Health. Now, we all know the incredible security company, ADT. They are using Salesforce Customer 360 to unify their entire customer experience, empowering 4,000 customer service agents and 7,000 field service agents with a complete view of their customers, which is driving operational efficiencies, as well as growth. And as Bret said, we expanded our partnership with VMware, which has been a Salesforce customer since 2008. This quarter, they kicked off a pilot of Slack plus service cloud to accelerate customer support. They also partnered with Tableau to extend data and analytics across their entire business, enabling the presentation of deep analytics to help innovate even faster. LVMH continues to expand with Salesforce to deliver luxury goods from anywhere globally. Forty thousand retail associates and customer service agents use Salesforce to deliver personalized retail journeys for their customers. And our win with the Boohoo Group, which is a leading UK-based online fashion retailer uses our technology to deliver their incredible online shopping experience. With commerce cloud, Boohoo is now expanding shopping via social media, marketplaces as they look to build for the future. And the state of Nevada's Department of Motor Vehicles is another great story in the quarter. They selected Salesforce as the platform to power its digital transformation across its entire business. This would mean a whole new experience for residents renewing driver's licenses, credentialing, titling, and registering vehicles, and so much more. And this is another great example of digital transformation powered by Salesforce. Of course, another great reason to move to Las Vegas. These are all great organizations that have pivoted their business to navigate this new world and deliver customer success from anywhere. They're relying on us more than ever and inspiring us to leverage the power of our Salesforce Customer 360, Slack, and so much more to continue to fuel their business. And finally, a word on Q4. I'm really encouraged about how we started the quarter. Demand and pipe look strong, and we're looking forward to a great finish to what has been an exceptional year. I want to thank our incredible team who continue to do such a great job in the midst of a massive global change. The work they do and the technology they deliver powers our customers' success, and we couldn't be more grateful. Amy, over to you to share the financial details of our quarter.Amy Weaver -- Chief Financial Officer Great. Thank you, Gavin, and hello, everyone. As we discussed two months ago at our Analyst Day, we are in a new world. And we showed our ability to execute in this new world once again in Q3. We delivered on key metrics: strong top and bottom line and cash flows. And our focus remains on disciplined and profitable growth. Q3 was also a milestone quarter as it was our first full quarter with Slack. Building on their strong performance over the last several quarters, Slack's early results reinforce our confidence in the strategic importance of this best-in-class asset. Now, let me walk you through some of the results for Q3 fiscal '22 beginning with top-line commentary. Total revenue for the third quarter was $6.86 billion, which includes $280 million from Slack. This is up 27 percent year over year or 26 percent in constant currency. The strong demand environment and new business pipeline that we've highlighted on the last few earnings calls continued, allowing us to outperform top-line expectations again. A few key highlights from the quarter. First launched 22 years ago, sales cloud became a $6 billion run rate business this quarter and grew revenues 17 percent. Sales cloud now joined service cloud, which became a $6 billion business just two quarters ago, and service cloud continues to grow over 20 percent at scale. These are two massive businesses growing in the double digits and their success is a testament to the strength of our core. Our Americas business is performing extremely well, and we see a healthy demand environment in front of us. New business in North America was especially strong, our largest market that we've been operating in for over 20 years. And if you heard from Bret, Slack continues to outperform our expectations plus a strong customer acquisition with notable strength in the enterprise. The number of paid customers spending greater than $100,000 annually accelerated for the fourth consecutive quarter, up 44 percent year over year. Slack Connection adoption remains strong with a number of connected endpoints reaching a record level of 176 percent year over year. And we've been able to introduce Slack to new customers. Already, four of our Top 10 deals this quarter included a new Slack win. Once again, we saw strong growth in our multi-cloud deal as our customers continue to ask for more than point solutions. In Q3, we recorded 33 percent year-over-year growth in the number of deals containing five or more clouds. We did see some headwinds this quarter to our MuleSoft business. When a business is growing as quickly as MuleSoft is, there are scaling challenges you can face, and we experienced some of those challenges this quarter. We are confident in the changes that we have made going forward. As a reminder, a large portion of our MuleSoft revenue was recognized in a period which has an outsized impact to our second-half revenue. MuleSoft remains a critical part of our Customer 360, allowing our customers to integrate all of their data and system. Beginning this quarter, with the incorporation of Slack into our financial results, we are providing investors with updated revenue by service offering disclosure. Going forward, Slack will be reported in platform and other. We are also creating a new revenue category, data, which will incorporate MuleSoft and Tableau, including Tableau CRM, all of which were previously included in platform and other. We believe this will provide greater transparency into our results. A historical recap using our new revenue breakdown is available on the earnings deck that we published alongside our press release. And we continue to make great progress on attrition. For the first time in company history, revenue attrition was below eight percent. Q3 attrition was between 7.5 percent to 8 percent, an improvement versus last quarter's 8 percent to 8.5 percent. Our remaining performance obligations, representing all future revenue under contract ended at Q3 at approximately $36.3 billion, up 20 percent year over year. Current remaining performance obligation or CRPO, which represents all future revenue under contract that is expected to be recognized as revenue in the next 12 months was approximately $18.8 billion, up 23 percent year over year and in constant currency. Slack represents four points of growth, in line with our guidance. Turning to operating margin, Q3 non-GAAP operating margin was 19.8 percent, which continues to benefit from revenue outperformance, efficiency from a work-from-anywhere world, and a focus on disciplined spending. Q3 GAAP EPS was $0.47 and non-GAAP EPS was $1.27. The outperformance in the quarter was primarily due to stronger revenue and expense deficiencies, as well as realized and unrealized gains on our strategic investment portfolio. These mark-to-market adjustments benefited GAAP EPS by approximately $0.27 and non-GAAP EPS by approximately $0.28. Turning to cash flow, operating cash flow in the third quarter was $404 million, up 19 percent year over year. Capex for the quarter was $166 million, resulting in free cash flow of $238 million, up to 11 percent year over year. Now, turning to guidance. We expect Q4 revenue of $7.224 billion to $7.234 billion or approximately 24 percent growth year over year. This guidance assumes a $285 million contribution from Slack in the fourth quarter. For the full year, we are raising our fiscal '22 revenue guidance by another $50 million to $26.39 billion to $26.4 billion. This equates to a total $100 million weighted to our revenue guidance since Q2. Our guidance now includes $565 million contribution from Slack for the fiscal year. The fiscal year revenue contribution from Slack represents a $35 million increase from our previous guidance. Our full-year guidance continues to include $200 million from Acumen. For Q4, we expect to deliver CRPO credit for approximately 19 percent. This includes four points of growth from Slack. One thing I will call attention to is that we remain mindful of the strengthening U.S. dollar in our foreign operations, which may impact our financials. We continue to monitor foreign exchange as we execute on what is typically the largest quarter in our fiscal year. We expect Q4 GAAP EPS of negative $0.24 to negative $0.23 and non-GAAP EPS of $0.72 to $0.73. In full year, this translates to GAAP EPS guidance of $1.28 to $1.29 and non-GAAP EPS guidance of $4.68 to $4.69. We expect recent M&A will be approximately $0.49 headwind to non-GAAP diluted EPS. And please recall that our OIE and EPS guidance assume no further contribution from mark-to-market accounting as required by ASU 2016-01. We are also raising our fiscal '22 non-GAAP operating margin guidance to 18.6 percent, representing an expansion of 90 basis points year over year. The raise in our operating margin guidance is due to refined assumptions around Slack and Acumen. We now expect a 140-basis-point headwind or 10 basis points less headwind than our previous guidance. I'd like to call out that our guidance continues to incorporate expense seasonality that is weighted to Q4, including investments in both our workforce and growth opportunities and T&E expectations. We are raising fiscal '22 operating cash flow guidance by four points, now expecting 18 percent to 19 percent growth year over year. The increase from our previous guide is primarily driven by strong revenue performance and lower headwinds from M&A. The diluted cash flow impact of Slack and Acumen now represents a headwind to our year-over-year growth of approximately five points. Excluding the anticipated impact of M&A, operating cash flow growth would be 23 percent to 24 percent. We continue to expect capex to be approximately three percent of revenue in fiscal '22, resulting in a free cash flow growth rate of approximately 19 percent to 20 percent for the fiscal year. Excluding the anticipated impact of M&A as previously noted, this rate would be 25 percent to 26 percent. As I shared with you two months ago, it is incredibly important to drive this kind of decision making in every aspect of the company. This new mindset will enable a more durable company as we approach $50 billion and fiscal '22 represents how we can deliver profitable growth in this new world. Turning to fiscal '23, we are pleased -- we were pleased to provide our initial revenue and non-GAAP operating margin guidance during our Investor Day. Today, we are initiating Q1 fiscal '23 revenue guidance of $7.215 billion to $7.25 billion or approximately 21 percent to 22 percent growth year over year. As Gavin mentioned, we're off to a strong start in Q4, and we'll provide you with our complete fiscal '23 guidance as part of our Q4 earnings in February. So, to close, our business is performing well, and we continue to see record levels of revenue and operating margin. Our flagship product and sales cloud saw a third consecutive quarters of acceleration, and we now have two $6 billion businesses in sales and service. Slack is outperforming our expectations, and the integration continues to progress well. And we remain incredibly well-positioned with our broad product portfolio and global reach to be able to serve all of our customers. Our products are more relevant than ever. Finally, on a personal note, I want to congratulate both Marc and Bret in their new co-CEO partnership. I have been privileged to work closely with both of them for many years, and I cannot begin to tell you how excited I am for both of them and even more for Salesforce. So, Jeff, why don't I take it back to you, and we can open it up for questions. Jeff? Operator? 