
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Nordson Corporation Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Lara Mahoney, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.Lara Mahoney -- Vice President, Investor Relations & Corporate Communications

 



Thank you. Good morning. This is Lara Mahoney, Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications. I'm here with Sundaram Nagarajan, our President and CEO; and Joseph Kelley, Executive Vice President and CFO. We welcome you to our conference call today, Tuesday, August 31, 2021 to report Nordson's fiscal 2021 third quarter results. You can find both our press release as well as our webcast slide presentation that we will refer to during today's call on our website at www.nordson.com/investor. This conference call is being broadcast live on our Investor website and will be available there for 14 days.There will be a telephone replay of the conference call available until Tuesday, September 7. During this call, references to non-GAAP financial metrics will be made. A reconciliation of these metrics to the most comparable GAAP metric was provided in the press release issued yesterday. Before we begin, please refer to slide 2 of our presentation where we note that certain statements regarding our future performance that are made during this call may be forward-looking based upon Nordson's current expectations.These statements may involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors as discussed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission that could cause actual results to differ. Moving to today's agenda on slide 3, Naga will discuss the third quarter highlights. He will then turn the call over to Joe to review sales and earnings performance for the total company and the two business segments. Joe will also discuss the cash flow and balance sheet. Naga will conclude with high-level commentary about our enterprise performance as well as our updated fiscal 2021 full year guidance. We will then be happy to take your questions.With that, I'll turn to slide 4 and hand the call over to Naga.

 



Sundaram Nagarajan -- President and Chief Executive OfficerGood morning, everyone. Thank you for joining Nordson's fiscal 2021 third quarter conference call. First and foremost, I want to congratulate the Nordson team on another record quarter. During this quarter, we continue to benefit from the execution of our NBS Next growth framework in combination with robust end market demand. Investments in industrial capex and the strengthening medical and electronics end markets drove record results in the quarter.I'm also pleased with the resilience of our colleagues. In this dynamic macro environment, that continues to be plagued by supply chain, labor and COVID concerns, our division leaders are deploying NBS Next to focus resources on the greatest growth opportunities in their respective businesses. I'll speak more about the business, including the recent announcement of the NDC Technologies acquisition in a few moments.But first, I'll turn the call over to Joe to provide a detailed perspective on our financial results for the quarter. Joe?

 



Joseph P. Kelley -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Naga, and good morning to everyone. On slide number 5, you'll see third quarter 2021 sales were $647 million, an increase of 20% over prior year's third quarter sales of $538 million. This is a new quarterly record for the company, $57 million above the prior quarterly record. The increase was primarily related to: 20% organic volume growth and favorable currency, offset by net -- negative impact from acquisitions and divestitures. The benefits from the Fluortek and vivaMOS acquisitions were more than offset by the headwind from the divestiture of the Screw and Barrel product line. When excluding the divested product line in the prior year for comparability purposes, sales growth would have been 24% in the current year third quarter.The organic sales increase was driven by continued demand across all divisions and end markets, including a seasonal increase in quarterly shipments into the electronics end markets. From a geographic perspective, growth was once again strong in all regions except Japan, which continues to manage pandemic-related impacts. Gross profit totaled $365 million or 56% of sales in the quarter, compared to $281 million or 52% of sales in the prior year. This 430 basis point increase in gross margin was driven by volume leverage, benefits from structural cost reduction measures taken in fiscal 2020, and improved sales mix particularly resulting from the divested Screw and Barrel product line at the beginning of fiscal second quarter.Also record in the quarter were operating profit of $188 million or 29% of sales, a 57% increase from the prior year adjusted operating profit of $120 million and EBITDA of $215 million or 33% of sales. This result was 45% higher than the prior year EBITDA of $148 million. Our broad-based organic growth, plus the favorable sales mix benefits, including the divestiture has led to attractive incremental EBITDA margins of greater than 60% in the quarter. The application of the NBS Next growth framework at our divisions is helping us to focus and realize profitable growth in areas of greatest opportunity. Looking now at non-operating expense, net interest expense decreased $1 million or 18% from the prior year associated with reduced debt levels.Other net expense decreased $7 million driven primarily by smaller currency translation losses and a non-cash pension settlement charge of $3 million in the third quarter of 2020 associated with the retirement of the prior CEO that did not repeat. Tax expense totaled $38 million or an effective tax rate of 21% in the quarter. Net income in the quarter increased 71% year-over-year to a $142 million or $2.42 per share, yet another quarterly company record. This significant growth is reflective of volume leverage driven by the 20% increase in sales as well as benefits from cost control measures and improved sales mix and manufacturing efficiencies.Now, let's turn to slide 6 and 7 to review the third quarter 2021 segment performance. Industrial Precision Solutions sales of $345 million increased 20% compared to the prior year third quarter. The organic volume increase of 22% was driven by the same growth in hot melt adhesive dispensing and industrial coating product lines. System sales in the quarter were particularly strong, up 37% across the broad set of end markets and geographies. The divested Screws and Barrels product line more than offset the currency gains on a year-over-year sales growth.Operating profit in the segment was $124 million or 36% of sales, compared to $78 million of adjusted operating profit in the prior-year period. This 60% profit growth was driven by sales volume leverage associated with the organic growth, favorable sales mix, and improved manufacturing efficiencies. The NBS Next growth framework is driving strong sales growth at very attractive incremental operating profit margins. Excluding the impact of the divestiture, incremental operating profit margins were 55% in the quarter. Moving now to Advanced Technology Solutions. Sales of $301 million increased approximately 21% compared to the prior year third quarter.This change included an organic increase of 18% as well as the increases of 2% related to currency and 1% related to acquisitions. The increase in organic sales volumes was driven by strong double-digit growth in all product lines particularly those serving electronics end markets and fluid management product lines serving medical and industrial end markets. Third quarter 2021 operating profit for this segment was $81 million or 27% of sales. This increase of 51% over prior year adjusted operating profit margin of $53 million was driven by sales volume leverage, favorable sales mix, and the realization of benefits from cost controls measures taken in fiscal 2020.Similar to the IPS segment, the implementation of NBS Next throughout the divisions of ATS is driving strong sales growth at attractive incremental operating margins of greater than 50%. Finally, turning to cash flow and balance sheet on slide 8; free cash flow in the quarter was strong at $118 million, which was 45% above the prior year free cash flow. Cash conversion on net income was 83% in the quarter, which was below normal levels due primarily to investments in working capital to support growth and a $30 million pension contribution. The year-to-date free cash flow conversion rate remains north of 100%.Dividend payments were $23 million in the quarter and the company's board approved a 31% increase in the annual dividend effective in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. This marks the 58th consecutive year the company has increased its dividend. The significant increase of 31% reflects the strength of our financial results, which is driven by our continued progress in executing the Ascend strategy, combined with the desire to maintain targeted payout and yield ratios.The annual dividend yield remains just under 1% at current market prices. Our third quarter balance sheet includes cash of $174 million and net debt was $647 million, ending the quarter with a 0.9 times leverage ratio based on trailing 12 months EBITDA. We continue to have significant available borrowing capacity to pursue organic and inorganic growth opportunities, similar to the NDC acquisition announced last week.I'll now turn the call back to Naga.Sundaram Nagarajan -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Joe. Let's turn to slide 9. Again, thank you to the Nordson team for delivering this outstanding performance. We are making progress on our Ascend strategy to achieve top tier revenue growth with leading margins and returns. During the quarter, Joe and I continue to visit our divisions to review their progress with NBS Next deployment. It is exciting to see how NBS Next is being applied to make data-driven decisions to meet the increased demand of our customers. For example, in our Nordson MEDICAL Interventional Solutions facility in Salem, New Hampshire, the team has used NBS Next to understand complexity and standardize their product offering.This has allowed them to disproportionately focus resources for their best customers and products. We are purposeful in where we focus our energy to ensure we take advantage of the greatest opportunities for profitable growth even during the recovery. NBS Next is at the core of our Ascend strategy, which is designed to deliver $3 billion in revenue and 30% EBITDA. This target will be achieved through a combination of organic growth within each segment as well as the acceleration of acquisitions. Clearly, the record-setting second quarter followed by the record-setting third quarter demonstrates that we are off to a strong organic start toward achieving our long-term goals.We're also making progress on our acquisition objectives. On August 23, we signed the definitive agreement to acquire NDC Technologies, a leading global provider of precision measurement solutions for in-line process control. This acquisition expands our test and inspection platform into new markets and adjacent technologies. With Nordson-like gross margins, it is clear that NDC has a differentiated product portfolio that is leveraged through a customer-centric business model. This portfolio includes in line measurements sensors, gauges, and analyzers using near-infrared, laser, X-ray, optical, and nucleonic technologies as well as proprietary algorithms and software.For example, its near-infrared technologies can simultaneously measure moisture, oil, and surface brownness of a potato chip or it can estimate the porosity level in the film used to separate the anode and cathode in an electric vehicle battery. Its laser and ultrasonic capabilities are used to measure wall thickness, ovality, and diameter of industrial cables or medical tubing. As customers focus on automation and process control, NDC supports their success through these critical quality control technologies. We also look forward to leveraging NDC's software and algorithm expertise to advance Nordson's capabilities in manufacturing process intelligence development.I'm very pleased with the strategic fit of this business, which aligns with the acquisition portion of the Ascend strategy presented at our Investor Day earlier this year. We look forward to welcoming the NDC team to Nordson, upon our NBS Next growth framework and investing in NDC's greatest opportunities for profitable growth. We expect the deal to close within our fiscal first quarter of 2022. Now, let's turn to an updated fiscal 2021 outlook on slide 10. As we enter the fiscal fourth quarter, backlog is approximately $700 million and 70% above the prior year. Customer order patterns have clearly changed in terms of both volume and extended shipment request dates in this dynamic environment.Based on the continued strength in our order entry and elevated backlog, we are increasing our full year revenue and earnings guidance. For full year fiscal 2021, we expect sales growth to be approximately 11% to 12% over fiscal year 2020. Excluding the 3% headwind from the revenue of the divested Screws and Barrels product line in the prior year, our forecasted full year sales growth would be approximately 14% to 15%. Our forecasted sales growth combined with the benefits from the strategic actions taken around efficiency and cost is forecasted to deliver earnings in the range of $7.75 to $7.95 per diluted share.The midpoint of this guidance reflects 43% earnings growth compared to prior year and a 34% increase over 2019 earnings. Given the strong system sales in the third quarter 2021 plus the seasonality in electronics, it is important that investors look at the second half of 2021 when reviewing our full-year guidance. At the midpoint, the guidance suggests second half sales growth of 14% and earnings growth of 47%. Additionally, the guidance implies that we expect to enter 2022 with a robust backlog, approximately 70% greater than the backlog entering fiscal 2021. Our current financial results signify more than the benefits of the recovery.Nordson wins because of the foundation of our precision technology focus, customer-centric model, and diversified end markets. We are well-positioned to benefit from this increase in demand as our products remain a critical solution to our customers through the cycle ahead. Additionally, our leadership team is advancing the implementation of the Ascend strategy, which is establishing a growth framework, entrepreneurial organization and a deep diverse team to drive sustainable profitable growth. As always, I want to thank our customers, shareholders and the Nordson team for your continued support.With that, we'll pause and take your questions.