  OperatorGood morning. My name is Katie, and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the conference call over to general manager of investor relations of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Roderick Green. Please go ahead.Roderick Green -- General Manager of Investor Relations Thank you, Katie. Welcome to Chevron's first quarter 2022 earnings conference call and webcast. I'm Roderick Green, GM of investor relations. Our chairman and CEO, Mike Wirth; and CFO, Pierre Breber, are on the call with me. We will refer to the slides and prepared remarks that are available on Chevron's website. Before we begin, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements. Please review the cautionary statement on Slide 2. Now, I'll turn it over to Mike.Mike Wirth -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer All right. Thanks, Roderick. Before we turn to first quarter results, I'd like to recognize the people of Ukraine. Our hearts go out to those affected by this tragedy, and we hope for a prompt and enduring diplomatic resolution. The last two years have been volatile and unpredictable, driven by the global pandemic and geopolitical conflict, creating strains on economies and markets around the world. Through it all, our objectives have been clear and consistent. And in the first quarter, we continued to make progress, delivering book returns in the mid-teens, investing to grow both our traditional and new energy businesses and returning even more cash to shareholders while maintaining an industry-leading balance sheet. Recent events remind us of the importance of energy. Looking forward, I know that Chevron is doing its part, raising this year's Permian production outlook and advancing two important renewable fuel transactions: our Bunge JV, which is expected to close shortly; and the Renewable Energy Group acquisition, which is expected to close around midyear. While the future is uncertain, our actions are not. We're on a path to delivering higher returns and lower carbon and rewarding our stakeholders all along the way. With that, I'll turn it over to Pierre to discuss our financials.Pierre Breber -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Mike. We reported first quarter earnings of $6.3 billion or $3.22 per share. Adjusted earnings were $6.5 billion or $3.36 per share. Included in the current quarter were pension settlement costs totaling $66 million and negative foreign currency effects exceeding $200 million. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures can be found in the appendix of this presentation. Adjusted ROCE was over 15% and our net debt ratio is below 11%. A third consecutive quarter with free cash flow over $6 billion, enabled us to return $4 billion to shareholders and further pay down debt. In addition, during the quarter, we received over $4 billion in cash, when about 3,000 current and former employees exercise stock options. This quarter's proceeds from option exercises were over 4x the historical annual average of around $1 billion per year. About two-thirds of the vest adoptions at year-end 2021 were exercised during the first quarter, lowering the potential future rate of dilution from the outstanding balance. Over time, we expect our share buybacks to more than offset the first quarter dilutive effect. Adjusted first quarter earnings were up $4.8 billion versus last quarter -- versus last year. Adjusted upstream earnings increased mainly on higher realizations while adjusted downstream earnings increased primarily on higher margins, partially offset by negative timing effects. Compared with last quarter, adjusted earnings were up more than $1.6 billion. Adjusted upstream earnings increased primarily on higher realizations and the absence of certain fourth quarter DD&A charges. Liftings were lower in part due to lower production in the Gulf of Mexico. Adjusted downstream earnings decreased primarily on timing effects. The all other segment was down primarily on unfavorable tax items and higher corporate charges. The all other segment results can vary between quarters, and our full year guidance is unchanged. First quarter oil equivalent production decreased 2% year on year due to the expiration of Rokan in Indonesia, lower production in Thailand as we approach the end of the concession and lower entitlements due to higher prices. Permian growth in the absence of Winter Storm Uri, impacts partially offset and drove U.S. oil and gas production up over 10%. Now, looking ahead. In the second quarter, we expect lower production due to planned turnarounds at Wheatstone and Angola LNG, impacts from CPC pipeline and the expiration of the Area 1 concession in Thailand. At CPC, two of the three single port moorings are now back in service and TCO has returned to full operations. Downtime associated with the April repairs is estimated to be less than 15% of our second quarter turnaround and downtime guidance. We anticipate a return of capital between $250 million and $350 million from Angola LNG in the second quarter. This cash is reported through cash from investing and not cash from operations. In the first quarter, Angola LNG returned over $500 million of capital. The differences between affiliate earnings and dividends are not ratable and TCO has not yet declared a dividend in 2022. With higher commodity prices, affiliate dividends are expected to be $1 billion higher than our previous guidance. We've utilized our NOLs and other U.S. tax attributes and expect to make estimated U.S. federal and state income tax payments in the second quarter. These payments will flow through working capital accounts, just like our first quarter IRS refunded. In the second quarter, we expect to invest $600 million as we close the Bunge joint venture and to repurchase shares at the top of our guidance range. With that, I'll turn it back to Roderick.Roderick Green -- General Manager of Investor Relations That concludes our prepared remarks. We're now ready to take your questions. Please try to limit yourself to one question and one follow up. We'll do our best to get all of your questions answered. Katie, please open the lines. 