  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the IQVIA first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded. Thank you. I would now like to turn the call over to Nick Childs, senior vice president, investor relations and corporate communications. Mr. Childs, please begin your conference.Nick Childs -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our first quarter 2022 earnings call. With me today are Ari Bousbib, chairman and chief executive officer; Ron Bruehlman, executive vice president and chief financial officer; Eric Sherbet, executive vice president and general counsel; Mike Fedock, senior vice president, financial planning and analysis; and Bryan Stengel, associate director, investor relations. Today we will be referencing a presentation that will be visible during this call for those of you on our webcast. This presentation will also be available following this call in the Events and Presentations section of our IQVIA investor relations website at ir.iqvia.com. Before we begin, I would like to caution listeners that certain information discussed by management during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results will differ materially from those stated or implied by forward-looking statements due to risks and uncertainties associated with the company's business, which are discussed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings.In addition, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures on this call, which should be considered a supplement to and not a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the press release and conference call presentation. I would now like to turn the call over to our chairman and CEO, Ari Bousbib. Ari Bousbib -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Nick, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining today to discuss our first quarter results. IQVIA had very strong financial results in the quarter and that is despite the broader macro environment. On this note, regarding first the tragic situation in the Ukraine, our thoughts and concerns from the beginning have been around the safety and well-being of our employees, the patients we support, and all those affected by the ongoing events. We have been actively supporting our employees and their families on the ground with evacuation support, relocation services, and financial assistance. For example, we accelerated bonus payments and actually we continue to pay our employees there regardless of their ability to perform any work. In addition, IQVIA capabilities are being utilized to help support the resulting refugee crisis. For example, Ukrainian refugees are entering surrounding countries with medicines and prescriptions, and medical professionals in those countries are seeking to identify and convert product information on these prescriptions into their local equivalent To help, we've established a free online service for medical professionals to search the product, name, active ingredients, and strength, and the tool generates a list of matching products in whichever the local country around the Ukraine is. Also, we've been working very closely with our customers, suppliers and clinical sites across the region to ensure continuity of our in-site clinical trials and ensure, of course, that our clients are able to continue to support the effective delivery of medicines to vulnerable patients in the region, who depend on these medicines. In Ukraine, we're providing support to ensure that trial patients, who have begun receiving treatment, remain on their treatment protocols. We've established direct-to-patients shipments of investigational medical product and patient call centers in order to ensure patient care can continue. In Russia, we are guided by ethical concerns to ensure the safety of patients already enrolled in clinical trials. We are utilizing our global logistics and procurement infrastructure to facilitate the movement of investigational medical products, lab kits, and samples into and out of the country to minimize potential adverse impacts to patient care. For studies that are in start up or early phase in both countries, we are redirecting patient recruitment to other countries based on consultations with our customers. Even though a little less than 1% of our overall revenue and approximately 3% of our global patient recruitment come from the Ukraine and Russia, the operational disruptions I just described will have some financial impact, which we have incorporated into our updated guidance. Now another key focus area for investors in the quarter, as you well know, has been the emerging biopharma funding environment. We received a number of questions on this topic since our earnings release in February and we have addressed those in multiple forums. However, there are these some lingering questions on the same topic, and I want to take this opportunity once again to reiterate our comments with a specific focus, A, on the funding environment and, B, beyond on our own company's exposure to the CBD segment. I'll start by stating that the concern about EBP funding environment is overstated. I want to support the assertion with four key points. Number one, the industry has observed a slowdown in public funding compared to the record levels seen in '20 and '21. But the private venture capital markets have continued to be strong and funding in the first quarter of '22 was the third highest ever, according to the National Venture Capital Association. And we also observe that these CBD firms are sitting on large amounts of cash from the very strong funding cycles in '20 and '21. Number two, when there is a reduction in EBP funding or the IPO market contracts, mid and large pharma companies often step up their acquisition activities of the EBP companies, and frankly, that benefits us as we have long standing relationships with these customers. In fact, you may have seen the recent acquisition of Checkmate Pharmaceuticals by Regeneron, which illustrates this very point. Number three, history tells us that when EDP funding slows, it does not have a significant effect on our business. For example, following the last EBP funding slowdown in 2015, '16, our IQVIA biotech unit saw no interruptions in net new business and revenue growth nor any unusual increase in cancelations. And finally, number four, when we look at either our pipeline or RFP activity, we have simply not seen any slowdown. No unusual cancelation activity, no unusual delays in decision making. In fact, in the quarter, our overall R&DS RFP dollars were up 13% year over year, and RFP dollars from EBP were up over 16%. The broader industry continues to show strength. We have seen clinical trials start up 7% in the first quarter compared to last year, with a 14% increase in oncology trial starts, which is a therapeutic area, as you well know, that's predominantly sponsored by EBP. Now, let me focus on our own exposure to this segment, specifically pre-commercial EBPs, which are those EBPs that have zero revenue and are the most vulnerable and exposed to the funding environment. And here I want to make another four points. Number one, as of March 31st, pre-commercial EBPs represented just over 10% of our total R&DS backlog. Number two, less than 7% of our overall RFP dollars in the quarter came from pre-commercial EBP. Number three, this exposure to pre-commercial EBP for IQVIA is not only minimal, but also I want to point out and underline that our vetting process for taking on a pre-commercial EBP is extremely rigorous and thorough. The process includes, for example, a review of the client's cash balances, payment history, the viability and quality of their science, and, of course, progress with clinical development. So again, said differently, not every EBP, who knocks at our door with a molecule that they think is interesting, makes it into our backlog. Number four, I would simply remind you that this exposure primarily impacts our R&DS segment. Approximately 45% of IQVIA's total company revenue comes from our commercial businesses. And as you know, there is virtually zero pre-commercial EBP exposure on the commercial side. With those comments as background, let me now delve into the first quarter results. Revenue for the first quarter grew 4.7% on a reported basis and 6.8% at constant currency. The $23 million beat above the midpoint of our guidance range was driven by strong operational performance across all three segments, and that was, of course, partially offset by foreign exchange headwinds. Compared to prior year and excluding COVID-related work for both years, our core businesses grew above 13% at constant currency on an organic basis. Ron will provide additional detail in his remarks, including COVID-adjusted numbers for each of our three segments. First quarter adjusted EBITDA grew 9.1%, reflecting our revenue growth as well as ongoing productivity initiatives. First quarter adjusted diluted EPS of $2.47 grew 13.3%. That was 4% above the midpoint of our guide, which is -- with about $0.03 of the beat coming from operational improvements. I now provide an update on the business and it starts with the commercial and technology side. We've spoken before and you're familiar with IQVIA's connected intelligence framework, which leverages our advanced analytics, technology and domain expertise across the entire clinical and commercial portfolio and has been critical in supporting the emerging needs of the pharma industry. I want to give a recent example of how these capabilities are being deployed. In the quarter, we entered into a multi-year agreement with Argenx for the development and commercialization of new indications for their rare disease product currently approved for treatment of a rare autoimmune disorder affecting the muscles. Our collaboration with Argenx incorporates IQVIA's connected intelligence to support clinical development, real world evidence, regulatory, and commercial support to accelerate the development of these products for potential treatment of other severe autoimmune diseases and to expand globally. It is an exciting product with a lot of upside potential. It's currently approved to treat six indications, has the potential for up to 15 indications. Plus, this drug has already been launched in the US and has plans to launch in Europe and in Japan in the next year. Another example of a client selecting IQVIA's integrated capabilities to solve complex problems is Ferrer, a European pharma client, recently selected IQVIA's Vigilance platform and regulatory information management technology. This is an area that's a real headache for our clients and our technology solutions simplify and streamline the processes. Ferrer will benefit from our technology's integrated AI [Inaudible] capabilities, automation of labor-heavy activities, and easy implementation. To date, over 150 clients have adopted one or more solutions within our safety, regulatory and quality suite of technologies. In real world evidence, I'm sure you've seen that we were selected to support DARWIN, or Data Analysis and Real World Interrogation Network. DARWIN is a strategic initiative of the EMA. This is a major win for IQVIA as it draws on our proprietary technologies, methods, and deep scientific and operational expertise. It will help us deepen our relationship with healthcare providers and sites across Europe. Moving to clinical technology. IQVIA continues to lead the industry in decentralized clinical trials. Our end to one solution of integrated technology and services capabilities are being utilized on just over one-third of our full service trials globally. To date, we've recruited over 300,000 patients across 80 countries, covering over 30 indications. Now, whether for traditional or decentralized trials, demand for our suite of digital critical technology offerings continued to increase in the first quarter. To date, over 400 clients have adopted one or more modules within our Orchestrated Clinical technology suite since launch. One of these key modules, for example, is our clinical trial payment solution. This technology ensures accurate, timely and transparent investigator payment processing. It's a key driver of both site and sponsor satisfaction. All of the top ten and 25 of the top 30 pharma clients have now selected IQVIA's payment technology solution for their trials. This includes a major award in the quarter with the top ten sponsor to migrate their entire payment ecosystem across several legacy platforms to our technology. The scale of this technology migration is the largest of its kind in the industry and encompasses 120 clinical studies across all phases with over 6,000 sites globally. Beyond these client highlights. Our overall R&DS business continued to see strong momentum in the quarter, delivering over $2.5 billion of net new business, including past-throughs. This included a record quarter of over $1.9 billion of services bookings, resulting in a first quarter contracted net book-to-bill ratio of 1.32, excluding pass-throughs; and 1.31, including pass-throughs. Over the last 12 months, our contracted net book-to-bill ratio was 1.33, excluding pass-through; and 1.32, including pass-through. Our contracted backlog in R&DS grew 9.1% year over year to a record $25.3 billion as of March 31, 2022. As a result, our next 12 months revenue from backlog increased to over $7 billion, growing 8% from a year ago. As you can see, there is a lot of strong positive momentum across the business regardless of the choppy macro environment. On a final note, IQVIA was named the top CRO in overall reputation by clinical trial sites around the world in the 2021 Central Awards Global Site Benchmark Survey. This is a big deal for us. It is a rigorous and independent survey that is highly respected in the industry. Over 60,000 investigators, trial coordinators, research nurses, and other clinical professionals representing clinical trial sites from around the world were asked to rank and score 29 CROs across 35 performance-related attributes. We're proud for being selected and named the top CRO in overall reputation that is specifically will receive high marks, especially high marks, for our comprehensive decentralized trials, direct-to-patient recruitment, and therapeutic clinical, regulatory, and technology expertise. I will now turn it over to Ron for more details on our financial performance.Ron Bruehlman -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Ron, thanks, Ari, and good morning, everyone. Let's start by reviewing revenue. First quarter revenue of $3,568,000,000 grew 4.7% on a reported basis and 6.8% at constant currency. In the quarter, COVID-related revenues were approximately $375 million, which was down about 35% versus the first quarter of 2021. In our base business, that is excluding all COVID-related work from both this year and last, organic growth at constant currency was about 13%. Technology and analytics solutions revenue for the first quarter was $1,439,000,000, which was up 6.8% reported and 9.8% at constant currency. Excluding all-COVID related work, organic growth at constant currency in tech and analytics solutions was just over 10%. R&D solutions first quarter revenue of $1,934,000,000 was up 3.5% in actual FX rates and 4.7% at constant currency. Again, excluding all COVID-related work, organic growth at constant currency in R&DS was approximately 17%, which was consistent with our expectations. Contract sales and medical solutions, or CSMS, first quarter revenue of $195 million grew 1% reported, and 5.7% at constant currency. Excluding all COVID-related work, organic growth at constant currency in CSMS was mid-single digits. OK. Let's move down the P&L now. Adjusted EBITDA was $812 million for the first quarter, which represented growth of 9.1% on a reported basis. First quarter GAAP net income was $325 million. That was up 53.3% year over year. And GAAP diluted earnings per share was a dollar $1.68, up 54.1% year over year. Adjusted net income was $477 million for the quarter, up 12.2% year over year, and adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 13.3% to $2.47. Now as already reviewed, R&D Solutions delivered yet another outstanding quarter of net new business. Our backlog at March 31 stood at a record $25.3 billion, an increase of 9.1% year over year. Net 12-month revenue from backlog increased 8% year over year to just over $7 billion. And I would note that both the backlog and net 12-month revenue numbers I just quoted were affected by FX rates at quarter end, and that is to say they were lower than they otherwise would have been due to the strengthening of the dollar during the quarter. OK. Moving now to the balance sheet. First quarter cash flow from operations was $508 million and capex was $177 million. That resulted in free cash flow of $331 million. And as a reminder, our free cash flow in the first quarter of each year is affected by the timing of annual bonus payments. At March 31, cash and cash equivalents totaled $1,387,000,000 million and gross debt was $12,637,000,000, which resulted in net debt of $11,250,000,000. Our net leverage ratio at March 31 was 3.64 times trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA. In the quarter, we repurchased $403 million of our shares, which leaves us with slightly over $2.1 billion of share repurchase authorization remaining under the current program. I would group the guidance. For the full year 2022, our expectation remains unchanged, but organic revenue growth, excluding COVID-related work, will be low to mid-teens at constant currency. Since February, FX fluctuations have caused an incremental full year revenue headwind of over $200 million as of yesterday's rates. In addition, we currently estimate the revenue disruption from the Russia-Ukraine crisis to be in the $40 million to $50 million range. Accordingly, we are updating our revenue guidance range to reflect these two factors. For the full year, we now expect revenue to be between $14,450,000,000 and $14,750,000,000, which represents year-over-year growth at 6.9% to 9% at constant currency and 4.2% to 6.3% reported, both compared to 2021. Now, as a reminder, in the revenue guidance we provided in our Q4 call in February, we absorbed a $70 million FX headwind versus the initial guidance we provided in our analyst and investor conference in November. Our projected revenue growth includes just over 150 basis points of contribution from M&A activity. Now, despite the macro factors that affected our revenue guidance, we're reaffirming our full year 2022 adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS guidance range that we provided on our fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. This includes absorbing the earnings impact of lost revenue in Russia and Ukraine, as well as the costs that remain there, such as salaries and assistance provided to employees. Accordingly, we continue to expect adjusted EBITDA to be between $3,330,000,000 and $3,405,000,000, representing a year-over-year growth of 10.2% to 12.7%. And we continue to expect adjusted diluted EPS to be between $9.95 and $10.25 or year-over-year growth at 10.2% to 13.5%. Now our full year 2022 guidance range assume that foreign currency rates as of yesterday, April 26, remain in effect for the balance of the year. Moving on to second quarter guidance, I'll remind you that the first half of last year represented our peak for COVID-related revenues. And as a result of that, the second quarter should be the toughest year-over-year compare in terms of revenues. So for the second quarter, revenue is expected to be between $3,470,000,000 and $3,520,000,000, representing growth of 4.6% to 6% on constant currency basis and 0.9% to 2.4% on a reported basis. Excluded -- excluding COVID-related work, we expect organic revenue growth at constant currency to be in the low to mid teens, consistent with what we had in Q1 actuals and our projected full-year revenue growth. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be between $790 million and $805 million, up 9.4% to 11.5%. And adjusted diluted EPS is expected to be between $2.35 and $2.42, growing 10.3% to 13.6%. So to summarize, we delivered very strong first quarter results on both the top and bottom line against what had been a very strong first quarter of 2021. Our base business maintained low teens organic growth at constant currency, excluding COVID-related work, with double digit growth on its basis in both [Inaudible] and R&DS. Our R&DS bookings -- excuse me, business recorded its largest ever quarter of service bookings. Contracted backlog exceeded $25 billion for the first time, rising over 9% year over year with over $7 billion expected to convert to revenue over the next 12 months. We maintain our net leverage ratio at 3.6 times 12-month adjusted EBITDA on a trailing basis. And finally and most importantly, despite the turmoil around us, we remain very confident in our outlook and accordingly have maintained our full year 2022 profit guidance. So with that, let me hand it back over to the operator for our Q&A session. 