  OperatorWelcome to the first-quarter 2021 Arista Networks financial results earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded and will be available for a replay from the investor relations section at the Arista website following this call. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Curtis McKee, AVP, corporate and investor development. Sir, you may begin.Curtis McKee -- Assistant Vice President, Corporate and Investor Development Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us. With me on today's call are Jayshree Ullal, Arista Networks' president and chief executive officer; and Ita Brennan, Arista's chief financial officer. This afternoon, Arista Networks issued a press release announcing the results of the fiscal first quarter ending March 31, 2021. If you would like a copy of the release, you can access it online on our website. During the course of this conference call, Arista Networks' management will make forward-looking statements, including those relating to our financial outlook for the second quarter of the 2021 fiscal year, longer-term financial outlooks for 2021 and beyond, our total addressable market and strategy for addressing these market opportunities, the potential impact of COVID-19 on our business and product innovation. And the benefits of recent acquisitions, which are subject to the risks and uncertainties that we will discuss in detail on our documents filed with the SEC, specifically in our most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K and which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these statements. These forward-looking statements as of today -- these are forward-looking statements apply as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future.We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges. We have provided reconciliations for these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings press release. With that, I will turn the call over to Jayshree. Jayshree Ullal -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Curtis. Thank you, everyone for joining us this afternoon for our first-quarter 2021 earnings call. I hope you're all being safe and vaccinated in these pandemic times. At Arista, we're especially deeply concerned by the heightened COVID crisis in India. We're taking steps to assist our local teams as best we can and know. Back to Q1 2021 specifics. We delivered revenues of $667.6 million for the quarter, with a non-GAAP earnings per share of $2.50. A-Care services, EOS renewals and subscription software contributed approximately 21.4% of the revenue. Our non-GAAP gross margins at 64.7% was influenced by software and services mix as well as higher enterprise and cloud tightened contributions for the quarter. We continue to experience good customer traction and growth with new customer logos and increasing million-dollar customers in the enterprises. In the quarter, cloud titans was our largest vertical, enterprise was a close second, followed by financials and specialty cloud providers tied at third place and service providers at fourth place. International contribution is 25%, and the Americas were at 75% in the quarter. In terms of sector and product trends, we will report the specifics annually. They are consistent with the ranges we have already provided in our investor relations deck. To reiterate, our cloud titans are in the 35% to 39% range, the enterprises are in the 35% to 39% range also, and the providers in the 25% to 30% range. Our product line forecast annually is expected to be 60% to 65% for core data center, 10% to 15% for adjacent campus and routing and 20% to 25% for software and services. In light of the industrywide chip and supply chain shortages, I'd like to shed more light on this topic, especially as it pertains to Arista. First and foremost, we are pleased with the healthy demand we are experiencing, and Arista is resonating well with customers and prospects as they are driving our multiyear growth projections. We share a preferred status with many of our top 100 and more customers and work intimately with them. However, the supply chain has never been so constrained in Arista history. To put this in perspective, we now have to plan for many components with 52-week lead times. COVID has resulted in substrate and wafer shortages and reduced assembly capacity. Our contract manufacturers have experienced significant volatility due to country-specific COVID orders. Naturally, we're working more closely with our strategic suppliers to improve planning and delivery. Customer demand and visibility, though, has improved in the past few months. We are working with our customers to understand the timing of their deployment needs. We do not believe at this time that our customers are pre-ordering. However, we do think they're exercising prudent planning for second half of 2021 and even into 2022. With this as a backdrop, we believe supply chain will remain a pain point for the balance of this year as a result of all these shortages. Therefore, Arista is taking decisive steps to invest in increased inventory and manufacturing capacity. I now announce why customers, especially risk-averse enterprises, choose Arista. Arista's recent enterprise momentum spans many vertical markets and includes a suite of data center, campus, routing and software products. Our customers are aligned with our software-driven, data-centric approach to building their cloud architecture, their cloud operations and their cloud experience. A key part of our enterprise traction is addressing the CIO's pain points to build a cloud-first and a data-driven network, spanning client to cloud networking. Historically, disparate functions and data sets into routers, security, switches and network management functions can now be integrated by Arista into a seamless network architecture with programmability, state and AI-driven characteristics. Let me try to illustrate a few enterprise examples to highlight this. A recent data center customer win was in the hospitality sector. They chose us because of our single EOS software image across multiple leased and spine platforms. Using CloudVision for automation, for 0 touch provisioning, easy upgrades, telemetry and compliance was only feasible because of Arista. Arista's deep buffer spine switches also enhanced their availability. A second example is in the international retail customer for data center and routing applications. A million-dollar customer. This was based on EVPN and VXLAN modern deep fine design and once again leveraged CloudVision and EOS for improved automation, programmability and change control. NetOps and DevOps automation with Ansible integration was another key deliverable for their distribution center. Our third enterprise win was in campus in Europe. The 720XP is differentiated as a POE platform with multi-gig capability across campus workspaces for both chassis and 1RU form factors. The 7050CX spine and spline brought lower power, low footprint and high-density as an alternative to the chassis. The campus customer also implemented unified wired and Wi-Fi cognitive capabilities, and this played a key role. Migrating from manual operations, once again, CloudVision with streaming telemetry was a key factor. In all these three examples, there were some common themes. The customer was very fatigued with legacy issues and embraced our U.S. software and our CloudVision as key differentiators and advantages. They also have much confidence in Arista's support, quality and continued innovation. They embrace our strategy and built upon our differentiated state-driven and programmable software foundation to deliver our cognitive 5As of agility, availability, analytics automation and AI and API-driven architecture. Switching to our popular cloud titans, we are pleased to also state that we now see increased visibility across 10-gig -- sorry, 100-gig, 200-gig and 400-gig demand from our cloud titan customers. While this business can be volatile, we have enjoyed a preferred partnership status with many of them deploying us in diverse use cases and deployments, consistent with the overall capex reported recently. I'd like to invite Anshul, our chief operating officer, to elaborate more on this. Anshul?Anshul Sadana -- Chief Operating Officer and Senior Vice President Thank you, Jayshree. We are driving next-generation cloud networking architectures for compute, storage, AI, data center interconnect and WAN. These designs continue to improve resiliency, scale and operational efficiencies for our customers. The much talked about 400-gig upgrade cycle, or as we have been saying the next-gen 100, 200 and 400-gig upgrade cycle, is expected to start second half of this year. Availability of ZR optics, MACsec encryption and software features to monitor these optical links is also well aligned in this time frame. While our customers have always wanted multi-vendor environments, we remain their preferred partner and continue to get our fair share. Demand for our products in the cloud titan segment is healthier than what we expected a quarter ago. Back to you, Jayshree.Jayshree Ullal -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Anshul. Well said. And so for all the reasons Anshul just mentioned, we are more constructive on the cloud titan demand in the second half of 2021, although shipments may trail due to our increased lead times. So in summary, our client to cloud networking strategy unifies silo data sets consistently. We are at the cusp of our network transformation, resulting in growth and diversification across both market sectors and product lines in the future. I will now pass it over to our CFO, Ita Brennan, for more financial specifics. Ita?Ita Brennan -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jayshree, and good afternoon. This analysis of our Q1 results and our guidance for Q2 2021 is based on non-GAAP and excludes all non-cash stock-based compensation impacts, certain acquisition-related charges and other nonrecurring items. A full reconciliation of our selected GAAP to non-GAAP results is provided in our earnings release. Total revenues in Q1 were $667.6 million, up 27.6% year over year and well above the upper end of our guidance of $630 million to $650 million. Shipments remained somewhat constrained in the period as we continued to carefully navigate industrywide supply chain constraints and COVID-related disruptions. Services and subscription software contributed approximately 21.4% of revenue in the first quarter. International revenues for the quarter came in at $165.7 million or 25% of total revenue, down slightly from 26% in the fourth quarter. This shift in geographical mix was largely due to the location of deployments by our larger cloud titan and specialty cloud customers. Overall gross margin in Q1 was 64.7%, above the midpoint of our guidance of approximately 63% to 65%, reflecting a balanced customer mix for the quarter. Operating expenses for the quarter were $180.9 million or 27.1% of revenue, up from last quarter at $178.1 million. R&D spending came in at $110 million or 16.5% of revenue, consistent with last quarter at $110.2 million. This reflected increased employee-related costs, offset by lower new product introduction spending in the period. Sales and marketing expense was $59.5 million or 8.9% of revenue, up from $54.9 million last quarter, with increased variable compensation and other headcount-related charges. As a reminder, we continue to benefit from lower COVID-related travel and marketing expenses. Our G&A costs came in at $11.4 million or 1.7% of revenue, down from last quarter at approximately $13 million, reflecting normal fourth-quarter compliance-related activities. Our operating income for the quarter was $251.3 million or 37.6% of revenue. Other income and expense for the quarter was a favorable $1.6 million. And our effective tax rate was approximately 21.4%. Other income and expense included $2 million of interest income, offset by some unfavorable FX amounts. This resulted in net income for the quarter of $198.8 million or 29.8% of revenue. Our diluted share number was 79.6 million shares, resulting in a diluted earnings per share number for the quarter of $2.50, up approximately 23.8% from the prior year. Now, turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and investments ended the year at approximately $3 billion. We repurchased $101 million of our common stock during the first quarter at an average price of $276 per share. As a reminder, we've now repurchased $763 million or 3.6 million shares against our board authorization to repurchase $1 billion worth of shares over three years, commencing in Q2 '19. We will continue to execute opportunistically against the remaining mandate. Turning to operational cash performance for the first quarter. We generated $254.7 million of cash from operations in the period, reflecting solid net income performance and continued investments in inventory and supply chain. DSOs came in at 51 days, down from 55 days in Q4, reflecting the linearity of billings in the period. Inventory turns were 1.8 times, consistent with last quarter. Inventory increased to $483.2 million in the quarter, up from $480 million in the prior period as we continue to buffer certain components and products. Our total deferred revenue balance was $720 million, up from $651 million in Q4, approximately $40 million of this increase related to product deferred revenue with acceptance causes for new products across various customers and sectors. The remainder of the increase in deferred revenue related to service renewal activity and is directly linked to the timing and term of service renewals, which can vary on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Looking forward, we expect 2021 to be a year of significant new product introductions, combined with a healthy new customer acquisition rate and expanded use cases with existing customers. These trends, in conjunction with reduced levels upfront in-person testing, may result in increased customer-specific acceptance clauses and increased volatility and our product deferred revenue amounts. Accounts payable days were 52 days, down from 54 days in Q4, reflecting the timing of inventory receipts and payments. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $5.1 million. Now, turning to our outlook for the second quarter and beyond. We saw healthy demand across all of our market segments in the first quarter. These demand trends, combined with favorable year-over-year comparatives, continue to support an improving top-line growth rate for the year. That said, we still expect some deceleration in quarterly year-over-year growth rates as we move through the year, given the top-line recovery experienced in the second half of 2020. On the gross margin front, we will continue to reiterate our overall gross margin outlook of 63% to 65%, with customer mix remaining the key driver. Turning to spending and investments. We remain committed to growing our investments in R&D to support innovation across the business and sales and marketing to support our go-to-market expansion. Finally, our outlook discussed above and our guidance for Q2 reflects our current understanding of COVID-19 and its impact on our business and supply chain. This is, however, an inherently uncertain situation, and we will need to continue to monitor and attempt to mitigate any challenges as the situation unfolds. With all of this as a backdrop, our guidance for the second quarter, which is based on non-GAAP results and excludes any non-cash stock-based compensation impacts and other nonrecurring items, is as follows: revenues of approximately $675 million to $695 million, gross margin of 63% to 65% and operating margin of approximately 37%. Our effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 21.9% with diluted shares of approximately 79.7 million. I'll now turn the call over to Curtis. Curtis?Curtis McKee -- Assistant Vice President, Corporate and Investor Development Thank you, Ita. We are now going to move to the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. Due to time constraints, I'd like to request that everyone please limit themselves to a single question. Thank you for your understanding. And operator, please take it away. 