  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the F5, Inc. first quarter fiscal 2022 financial results conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Also, today's conference is being recorded. If anyone has an objection, please disconnect at this time. I'll now turn the call over to Ms. Suzanne DuLong. Ma'am, you may begin.

 



Suzanne DuLong -- Vice President, Investor Relations Hello, and welcome. I'm Suzanne DuLong, F5's vice president of investor relations. Francois Locoh-Donou, F5's president and CEO; and Frank Pelzer, F5's executive vice president and CFO, will be making prepared remarks on today's call. Other members of the F5 executive team are also on hand to answer questions during the Q&A session. A copy of today's press release is available on our website at f5.com, where an archived version of today's call will be available through April 26, 2022. Today's live discussion is supported by slides, which are viewable on the webcast and will be posted to our IR site at the conclusion of today's discussion. to access the replay of today's call by phone, dial 800-585-8367 or 416-621-4642 and use meeting ID 687-9935. The telephonic replay will be available through midnight Pacific Time, January 26, 2022.For additional information or follow-up questions, please reach out to me directly at s.dulong@f5.com. Our discussion today will contain forward-looking statements, which include words such as believe, anticipate, expect and target. These forward-looking statements involve uncertainties and risks that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. Factors that may affect our results are summarized in the press release announcing our financial results and described in detail in our SEC filings.

 



 Please note that F5 has no duty to update any information presented in this call. With that, I will turn the call over to Francois. Francois Locoh-Donou -- President, Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Suzanne, and hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. Our strong first quarter results demonstrate our customers need to grow and evolve the applications that support and drive their businesses. Customer demand stay in our portfolio, driving 10% revenue growth in Q1 and our fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth. Underpinning our top line growth is robust 47% software growth, 1% systems growth and 2% global services growth in the quarter. In fact, both software and systems demand exceeded our expectations in Q1, contributing to our outperformance. We are at the epicenter of digital transformation and application security. We are differentiated by our focus, expertise and the vision and technology assets to secure and deliver any application anywhere.

 



 As a result, we have seen strengthening demand across our software portfolio and persistent strong demand for our systems. The call outs in the industry since late 2020, we have been taking progressively more aggressive steps to manage supply chain risks. These include preordering components, investing to secure supply, qualifying and sourcing alternate components and purchasing on the open market to fill gaps that arise. Over the last year, stronger-than-expected demand for systems, coupled with ongoing supply chain constraints have gated our systems revenue growth. As a result of persistent strong system demand, our systems backlog continued to grow in Q1. Over the last 30 days, suppliers of critical components that span a number of our platforms have informed us of significant increases in decommits. These can in the form of both order delivery delays and sudden and pronounced reduction in shipment quantities. The step function decline in component availability is significantly restricting our ability to meet our customers' continued strong demand for our systems. The challenge is in Q2, and we expect Q2 revenue in the range of $610 million to $650 million as a result. This revenue range reflects a $60 million to $80 million shortfall in our ability to ship in our second quarter versus what we would have expected absent these recent supply chain constraints. Based on the information we have today, we estimate that increased supply chain limitations are likely to have a net $30 million to $90 million impact to our prior revenue guidance for fiscal year 2022. We are aggressively working to mitigate the impact of two primary gating supply challenges near term. First, like others in the industry, we are seeing worsening availability of specialized networking chipsets. Within the last 30 days, we have learned that deliveries for 52-week lead time components ordered a year ago, have been pushed out and that our expected quantities have been reduced. Second, we also have experienced significant decommits for standard semiconductor components. We are working to design and qualifying replacement components to resolve these standard component challenges. While we are unlikely to be able to do so in time to mitigate production shortfalls in Q2, we expect that we can mitigate the impact on the second half of our fiscal year. In addition to continuing to work with our suppliers, our sales teams also will be working with customers to fulfill their demand with alternative offerings. In some cases, customers may be able to qualify and ship demand to recently introduced platforms that are less affected by supply chain issues because they use more readily available components. Now let me be very clear. The main drivers across our business are stronger than they have ever been. While near-term supply chain challenges made a swap to our revenue growth trajectory short term, fundamentally, we did not change the significant opportunity we have to solve our customers' most critical application security and delivery challenges, nor will it change our longer-term growth potential. Our software transition continues to gain momentum. In fact, we now expect to be closer to the top end of our 35% to 40% software revenue growth range for the year. In addition, systems demand exceeded our plan in Q1 and remained strong headed into Q2. Because of the strong demand signals we see and our confidence in our longer-term trajectory, we will continue to invest responsibly in our business and will not make any dramatic changes to our operating model short term. While this will mean near-term pressure on our operating margin, it best positions us to continue to capture our growth opportunity and long-term earnings potential. We expect to return to our previously forecasted operating margin profile as we return to full manufacturing capacity. Our Q1 customer wins offer great insights to both our momentum and the opportunity ahead. For instance, for basic application security threat, like Log4j, clearly demonstrated why every application needs web application firewall protection. As a result, we are seeing heightened interest in F5's WAF solution for both traditional and modern applications. In just one example, during Q1, a customer selected NGINX with App Protect to add vast protection closer to the containers deployed by its DevOps teams. This is in addition to the advanced WAF operated by its traditional SecOps team. We also see growing demand for fraud and bot defense. As an example, in Q1, one of Central America's most prominent banks was still struggling with data security despite deploying multiple security solutions. The bank selected our Shape solution to defend them against persistent automated attacks. Shape dramatically reduced the customers' automated traffic, successfully reducing consumer friction across their digital channels. Shape is also providing broad-based analytics for improved application security and visibility. Finally, customers' modern applications are moving into production and experiencing significant and constant swings in user demand. As a result, they need infrastructure that scales up automatically to make user demands or down to save cloud costs. For instance, during Q1, an American multinational investment bank and financial services customer selected NGINX to help modernize a Kubernetes-based application. The customer's existing solution was unable to provide multisite resiliency for a service running within Kubernetes clusters. The customer selected NGINX Plus to provide multicluster, multisite sale-over. Customers are increasingly looking to F5 to help them solve an escalating volume of application security and delivery challenges and multi-trial challenges, and modern app challenges like scaling Kubernetes-based apps into production. These challenges and the complexity they entail are only mounting for our customers. They see F5 as an innovator, uniquely equipped to help them build and scale both the traditional and modern application environments. And the cloud-ready capabilities we are building with our Volterra and Threat Stack integrations only enhance our positioning and appeal. I'll now turn the call to Frank to review our Q1 results and our outlook. Frank?Frank Pelzer -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Francois, and good afternoon, everyone. I'll review our Q1 results before providing our Q2 outlook and updated fiscal year 2022 guidance. As Francois outlined, our team delivered another very strong Q1. First quarter revenue of $687 million is up 10% year over year and above the top end of our guidance range. Please note, as I review our revenue mix, I will be referring to non-GAAP revenue measures for the year-ago period. Q1 product revenue of $343 million is up 19% year over year, representing 50% of total revenue. Q1 software revenue grew 47% to $163 million representing 47% of product revenue, up from 38% in the year-ago period. Systems revenue of $180 million is up 1% compared to Q1 last year. Rounding out our revenue picture, we see continued strength from our global services with $344 million in Q1 revenue. This is up 2% compared to last year and represents 50% of revenue in Q1. Taking a closer look at our software revenue, subscription-based revenue represented 81% of total software revenue, up from 77% in the year ago period. Subscription-based revenue includes a ratably recognized as-a-service offerings and our solutions sold as term-based licenses. Revenue from recurring sources, which includes term subscriptions as a service and utility-based revenue, as well as the maintenance portion of our services revenue, totaled 68% of revenue in the quarter. On a regional basis, in Q1, Americas delivered 17% revenue growth year over year, representing 59% of total revenue. EMEA was flat year over year, representing 24% of revenue and APAC delivered 2% growth, accounting for 18% of revenue. The strength in Q1 spanned customer verticals as well. Enterprise customers represented 71% of product bookings in the quarter, service providers represented 15%, and government customers represented 14%, including 4% from U.S. Federal. I will now share our Q1 operating results. GAAP gross margin was 80.3%. Non-GAAP gross margin was 83%. Along with our increased component prices, we anticipate continued pressures related to our supply chain in the next several quarters. We expect these pressures will result in some increased costs related to expedite fees and sourcing of long lead time components. GAAP operating expenses were $438 million. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $345 million. Our GAAP operating margin in Q1 was 16.6%. Non-GAAP operating margin was 32.7%. Our GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was 16.3%. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 19.5%. GAAP net income for the quarter was $93.6 million or $1.51 per share. Non-GAAP net income was $179 million or $2.89 per share. I will now turn to the balance sheet. We generated $90 million in cash flow from operations in Q1. We tend to see cash flow dip in Q1 as a result of the timing of cash receipts and billings among other factors. Q1's cash flow is below our recent range because of two primary factors. First, we had strong multiyear subscription sales in the quarter. As a reminder, our multiyear subscriptions are generally sold on three-year terms. We built only one-third of the contracted signing with the remainder going to unbilled assets. Second, during the quarter, we also had some significant prepayments with our contract manufacturer associated with the components for future builds. DSO for the quarter remained strong at 55 days. Cash and investments totaled approximately $936 million at quarter end. During the quarter, we repurchased approximately $125 million worth of F5 shares or approximately 539,000 shares at an average price of $232. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $11 million. Deferred revenue increased 16% year over year to $1.576 billion, up from $1.359 billion. The growth in total deferred was largely driven by subscription and SaaS bookings, and to a lesser extent, deferred service maintenance. Finally, we ended the quarter with approximately 6,550 employees, up approximately 90 from Q4. This includes employees added with the Threat Stack acquisition, which closed in the quarter. Francois shared our Q2 revenue outlook and our updated fiscal year 2022 outlook in his remarks, I'll recap our full Q2 guidance and fiscal year 2022 updates with you now. Unless otherwise stated, please note that my guidance comments reference non-GAAP metrics. Let me start with Q2. We expect Q2 revenue in the range of 610 million to 650 million as a result of supply chain-related systems production constraints. Taking into account continued component cost increases, and the costs related to actions we are taking to mitigate supply chain pressures, we expect Q2 gross margins to approximate 82% to 82.5%. As Francois discussed, because we believe the current supply chain challenges are transitory and do not reflect the underlying growth trajectory of the business, we do not intend to adjust our operating model. We believe doing so with risk compromising our ability to deliver future revenue growth. As a result, we are likely to see operating margin pressure in Q2 and for the next several quarters. I'll remind you that, historically, Q2 is our seasonal low for operating margins as a result of the annual payroll tax and retirement benefit resets. That said, we estimate Q2 operating expenses of $357 million to $371 million. We anticipate our full fiscal year effective tax rate will be in the range of 20% to 21%, including the impact of our 19.5% Q1 tax rate with some fluctuations included in the quarter. Our Q2 earnings target is $1.75 to $2.15 per share. We expect Q2 share-based compensation expense of approximately $65 million to $67 million. Let me now review our updated fiscal year 2022 outlook. We expect fiscal year 2022 revenue growth in the range of 4.5% to 8%, reflecting a reduction of $30 million to $90 million to our prior fiscal year 2022 revenue guidance. The higher end of this range provides for the potential of some additional supplier decommits. It does not, however, assume another step function deterioration from the level of decommit we have seen recently. We continue to be very confident in our software revenue growth range of 35% to 40% and expect to be closer to the top end of the range for the year. We also anticipate global services revenue growth of 1% to 2% for the year. Like other vendors, we have seen component costs and expedite fees escalate over the last year. As a result, in December, we announced we would be implementing a price increase of approximately 8% to our iSeries appliance platform effective February 1. We expect this pricing change will begin to positively impact gross margins in the second half of our fiscal year. We expect non-GAAP operating margin in the range of 29% to 31% for fiscal '22 with Q2 representing the low point for the year, and operating margins are improving in Q3 and Q4. We remain committed to regaining our target Rule of 40 operating benchmark, where the combination of our revenue growth and non-GAAP operating margins totaled 40. We also remain committed to repurchasing $500 million in shares during the fiscal year. With that, I will turn the call back over to Francois. Francois? Francois Locoh-Donou -- President, Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Frank. In closing, I'll note that we are making very good progress with our Volterra and Threat Stack integration, and you will be hearing more about our resulting SaaS-based solution offering very soon. We are mainly focused on doing everything in our power to mitigate supply chain impacts for our customers. Our future growth and our long-term opportunity will be driven by our software and our imminently launching Software-as-a-Service app security and delivery solutions. While we are solely disappointed that supply chain challenges have gated our ability to fulfill customer demand for systems in the near term, we are more confident than ever in our position, our strategy, and our long-term opportunity. Our Q2 pipeline is strong, and we have good visibility into demand for the back half of our fiscal year. Our customers are faced with ever-increasing performance expectations for their applications, while at the same time, scaling to meet unprecedented demand and evolving their architectures to enable production scale container-based infrastructures. With our adaptive applications vision and our ability to serve any app anywhere, F5 brings cloud-ready solutions that close the gap between customers' traditional and modern application environments. Finally, I extend my heartfelt thanks to the entire F5 team for their steadfast focus and execution. And thanks to our customers and our partners for being on our journey with us and providing guidance and support along way. With that, operator, we will open the call to Q&A.  