  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Otis' fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. This call is being carried live on the internet and recorded for replay presentation. Materials are available for download from Otis' website at www.otis.com. I'll now turn it over to Michael Rednor, senior director of investor relations.Michael Rednor -- Senior Director of Investor Relations Thank you, Catherine. Welcome to Otis' fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. On the call with me today are Judy Marks, president and chief executive officer; and Rahul Ghai, executive vice president and chief financial officer. Please note, except where otherwise noted, the company will speak to results from continuing operations, excluding restructuring and significant nonrecurring items.

 



 The company will also refer to adjusted results where adjustments were made as though Otis was a stand-alone company in the current period and prior year. A reconciliation of these measures can be found in the appendix of the webcast. We also remind listeners that the presentation contains forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Otis' SEC filings, including our Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Judy. Judy Marks -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Mike, and thank you, everyone, for joining us. We hope everyone listening is safe and well. We delivered a strong close to an excellent year despite ongoing macro challenges. These results are a testament to the strength of our strategy and the dedication of our colleagues to execute and deliver results for our customers and shareholders.

 



 We achieved broad-based organic sales growth, grew adjusted operating profit for the third year in a row, delivered 19% adjusted EPS growth, and generated $1.6 billion in free cash flow while introducing new innovative solutions for our customers and passengers. We remained committed to shareholder value creation and strategically deployed capital, completing $450 million in debt repayment, distributing over $390 million in dividends after raising the dividend 20% versus the prior year, and repurchasing $725 million of Otis shares. Given the strength of our balance sheet, we also announced our tender offer for the remaining interest in Zardoya Otis and accretive transaction for Otis. New equipment orders were up 7.3% in the fourth quarter and up 13.2% for the year with broad-based growth. In Asia-Pacific, we received an order for nearly 280 units, supporting Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport's new Terminal 3 building and concourse. This includes 92 escalators, 60 moving walkways, and more than 120 Gen2 elevators equipped with ReGen drive technology that will support the terminal's smart and green design. In November, we received an order for Sawyer's Landing in Miami, Florida. This project extends a decade-long relationship with the developer. And Otis will install over 20 elevator and escalator units. Additionally, Concord Pacific, one of the largest developers in Canada, has selected Otis to support its King Landing project in Toronto, Ontario, extending our nearly decade-long relationship. We will provide more than a dozen elevators for this mixed-use high rise. These orders demonstrate the power of long-lasting relationships and our continued investments in providing innovative solutions for our customers. Our strong orders momentum throughout the year led to approximately 115 basis points of new equipment share gain on top of 60 basis points in the prior year. In addition to executing on our financial priorities, we remain committed to advancing our ESG initiatives. Our Gen360 next-generation digitally native elevator platform was awarded two environmental product declarations. This platform is positioned to revolutionize our customer and passenger experience while providing energy efficiency benefits that help to reduce the impact on our planet.

 



 Gen360 joins our existing suite of energy-efficient products, such as the ReGen drive, which can distribute power back into a building. Also, in China, we received several awards that recognize our team's achievements in leadership, innovation, and sustainability, including recognition as a 2022 top employer by the Top Employers Institute. And finally, last week, Otis was recognized for the second year in a row as a best place to work for LGBTQ equality by the Human Rights Campaign. This award demonstrates our leadership in creating an inclusive culture, where all voices feel safe, welcomed, and heard. Now, moving to slide 4. This year, we grew our industry-leading maintenance portfolio by 3%, our best portfolio growth rate in over a decade. This accelerated maintenance portfolio growth is a key part of our long-term strategy. Equally important is the digital connectivity of units in our service portfolio. And this year, we deployed approximately 100,000 Otis ONE units, bringing total portfolio connectivity to about one-third of our approximately 2.1 million units under our service. Over the medium term, we plan to increase connectivity to approximately 60% of units, up from roughly 25% at the end of 2020. Our operational initiatives also progressed as we rationalized adjusted SG&A expense, down 40 basis points as a percentage of sales, and reduced the adjusted effective tax rate by 190 basis points. This represents significant progress in rightsizing our costs and optimizing our tax structure as an independent company. I'm pleased with our performance in our second year as an independent company, as we delivered strong financial results and advanced our ESG initiatives. You can expect to hear more in the coming months with the publishing of our first ESG report. Now, turning to Slide 5 and starting with the 2022 industry outlook. While market dynamics remain fluid, the industry's long-term fundamentals are solid. We're encouraged by the strong recovery experienced during 2021 and have confidence this momentum will continue into 2022 in many regions. The new equipment market is expected to be up mid to high single digits in the Americas, low single digits in EMEA, and down mid to high single digits in Asia, driven by uncertainty in China, where we expect the market to be down 5% to 10%. While the China new equipment market faces headwinds, this will not detract from solid growth in the service installed base, where approximately 1 million units are added each year to the global base, a mid-single-digit growth rate annually. Industry installed base in the Americas and EMEA are expected to grow low single digits. And in Asia, we're expecting high-single-digit growth driven by China. Service is the foundation of our business, and we expect to grow our service units by more than 3% in 2022 and to eclipse 2.2 million units under maintenance, remaining the largest service portfolio in the industry. Here's our 2022 financial outlook. For the year, we expect organic sales growth of 2.5% to 4.5%. Net sales will be in a range of $14.4 billion to $14.7 billion, up 1% to 3%, accounting for FX headwinds. Adjusted operating profit is expected to be in a range of $2.24 billion to $2.3 billion, up $95 million to $165 million, excluding the expected impacts from foreign exchange. At actual currency, adjusted operating profit is expected to be up $50 million to $120 million. Adjusted EPS is expected in the range of $3.20 to $3.30, up 6% to 10% versus the prior year and $0.24 cents at the midpoint. Lastly, we expect free cash flow to be robust at about $1.6 billion or approximately 115% to 120% conversion of GAAP net income. We remain highly disciplined in our capital allocation strategy, committed to meeting the needs of all stakeholders through dividends, debt paydown, bolt-on M&A, and share repurchases, once we complete our deleveraging plans associated with the acquisition of the remainder of Zardoya. With that, I'll turn it over to Rahul to walk through our 2021 results and 2022 outlook in more detail.Rahul Ghai -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Judy, and good morning, everyone. Starting with fourth quarter results on Slide 6. Net sales were up 2.2% to $3.6 billion. Organic sales grew for the fifth consecutive quarter and were up 2.8% with growth in both segments. Adjusted operating profit was up $11 million and up $21 million at constant currency as higher volume, productivity in both segments, and favorable service pricing was partially offset by commodity inflation and the absence of temporary cost actions taken in the prior year to alleviate the impact of COVID-19. Fourth quarter adjusted EPS was up 9.1% or $0.06, driven by $0.02 of operating profit growth and $0.02 from a lower adjusted tax rate. Benefit from share repurchases done earlier in the year and reduced interest expense from the repayment of debt contributed the balance. Adjusted EPS was $0.06 ahead of the prior outlook, including the favorability from better-than-expected operating profit growth and tax rate that ended at the low end of prior expectations. Moving to Slide 7. New equipment orders were up 7.3% at constant currency. Otis' momentum remained strong in Asia, up mid single digits, including the seventh consecutive quarter of growth in China. Orders were up high teens in the Americas, and awards which precede order booking, were up mid single digit in North America, signaling continued recovery in the booking trends heading into '22. EMEA was flat versus the prior year as mid-single-digit growth in Europe was offset by a decline in the Middle East from a tough compare on major orders. Proposal volumes in the quarter also continue to show signs of robust demand globally, up double digits, driven by strength in China. Total company backlog increased 1% and 3% at constant currency, with growth in all regions, including approximately 5% growth in Asia. Booked margin in the quarter was down slightly more than half a point from a decline in the Americas, partially due to customer mix. But the year-over-year trends in the region showed substantial improvement from Q3. This was partially offset by almost a point of improvement in booked margins in Asia with EMEA being about flat. Overall, our pricing on new orders was slightly better than our prior expectations. The backlog margin trend adjusted for mix was about flat sequentially and down about a point versus the prior year. Full year, new equipment orders were up 13.2% with growth in all regions, with Americas up 14%, EMEA up 4%, and Asia up 17% with high-teens growth in China. In the fourth quarter, new equipment organic sales were up 1.2% from growth in Asia, up approximately 12%, including mid-teens growth in China. Growth in Asia was partially offset by a decline in the Americas and EMEA, driven by tough compares from strong recovery from COVID-19 in the fourth quarter of the prior year. Adjusted operating profit was down $7 million. Commodity inflation of $35 million that was in line with our prior expectations was largely mitigated by installation productivity and favorable performance on projects. Service segment results on Slide 8. Maintenance portfolio was up 3% from broad-based improvements in retention, recapture, and conversion rates. Conversion rate in 2021 was up three points globally and up five points in China to 45%. This improvement in conversion contributed to high-teens portfolio growth in China for the second consecutive quarter. In addition, our retention rate in 2021 continued to improve and is now above 94%. Modernization orders returned to growth in the quarter and were up 18.3% at constant currency with growth in EMEA and the Americas. Overall, modernization backlog was up 6% at constant currency. Service organic sales grew for the fourth consecutive quarter, up 4%, with growth in all lines of business. Maintenance and repair grew 4.3% with continued robust recovery in repair and low-single-digit growth in the contractual maintenance sales. Modernization sales are up 2.2%, slightly below our expectations due to continued supply chain challenges. Service-adjusted operating profit was up $20 million, with 50 basis points of margin expansion, the eighth consecutive quarter of margin improvement. Profit growth was driven by higher volume, favorable pricing and mix, partially offset by higher cost from the absence of COVID-19 cost-containment actions taken in the prior year. Service portfolio pricing was up more than 1%, mainly due to price increases in Americas and EMEA. Moving to Slide 9. Overall, for the full year, we carried the momentum from 2020 into 2021 and gained 115 basis points of new equipment share gain, accelerating the rate of maintenance portfolio growth. Organic sales were up almost 9%, with new equipment and service up 15.5% and 4.1%, respectively. This sales growth, our focus on execution, and FX tailwind resulted in $272 million of adjusted operating profit growth. New equipment operating profit was up $105 million versus the prior year at constant currency, driven by higher volume and installation productivity that was more than double what we achieved in 2020. This, combined with our ongoing focus on material productivity, more than offset the unfavorable price mix and headwinds from commodity price increases of approximately $90 million. Margins in the segment expanded 100 basis points, more than offsetting the decline in 2020 and are now above 2019 levels. Service-adjusted operating profit was up $104 million versus the prior year at constant currency, driven by higher volume, productivity initiatives, and favorable pricing that more than offset return of costs in the business to support higher activity. Service margins expanded 30 basis points, building on the expansion in 2020 and a now 140 basis points above 2019 levels. Corporate segment costs were about flat for the year, despite the step-up in public company expenses from disciplined cost management. Adjusted EPS was up 19% for the year from operating profit increase and a reduction in the tax rate that was down 190 basis points for the year. Adjusted EPS was up about 35% from 2019 for a two-year CAGR of 16%, substantially ahead of our prior medium-term growth expectation. We generated close to $1.6 billion in free cash flow from earnings growth and a rigorous focus on working capital. Working capital is now down more than 50% from 2019 levels. As we look forward to 2022, on Slide 10, we expect service industry growth rates to be consistent with 2021 across all regions and new equipment end markets to show solid growth outside of China. This, combined with a higher starting new equipment backlog, strength of the maintenance portfolio, and our relentless focus on operational excellence gives us the confidence to improve across all key metrics in 2022 with organic sales up 2.5% to 4.5% and overall margin expansion of approximately 30 basis points. We expect sales, operating profit, and margins to improve in both segments at the midpoint. Adjusted EPS is expected to be in a range of $3.20 to $3.30, up 8% or $0.24 at the midpoint. We expect free cash flow of approximately $1.6 billion between 115% and 120% of GAAP net income. This free cash flow outlook reflects the strong earnings growth expectation, partially offset by an approximately $55 million headwind from a one-time tax-related payment that was previously expected in 2021 and $20 million in incremental capital expenditures to support digital connectivity initiatives. Our capital deployment plans remain on track. And we have already repaid $400 million of debt in January, with the remaining deleveraging expected to be completed in the first half. Once our target leverage metrics are met, we plan to recommence share repurchases. Taking a closer look at our organic sales outlook on Slide 11. The new equipment business is projected to be up 0.5% to 3%, supported by the backlog that was up 3% at constant currency in 2021. Americas organic sales growth is expected to be up low single digits, EMEA up mid single digits. Asia is expected to be up or down slightly, with mid- to high-single-digit growth in Asia-Pacific. China is expected to be flat to down low single digits as growth from higher starting backlog is offset by a decline in the book and ship business. Service segment growth is broad-based and is expected to be up in all regions, with maintenance and repair up 4% to 6%, benefiting from a 3% higher starting portfolio, favorable service pricing environment, and a continued recovery in repair. Modernization is expected to be up 4% to 6% from 6% higher starting backlog and easing of 2021 supply chain challenges. Overall, organic sales are expected to be up 2.5% to 4.5%, building on the approximately 9% organic growth in 2021. Switching to EPS grades on Slide 12. We expect EPS growth of 6% to 10%, with operating profit growth of $95 million to $165 million at constant currency, contributing $0.16 to $0.27 to the EPS growth. Operating profit will benefit from increased volume in both segments, service pricing tailwinds, and continued savings from material, installation, and service productivity initiatives. This will be partially offset by commodity headwinds of approximately $90 million. Foreign exchange translation is expected to be a 7% EPS headwind, mainly from the strengthening of the euro and the yen against the U.S. dollar. Noncontrolling interest expense from increased profit in China and other JVs will reduce EPS by $0.02 to $0.04. FX translation impact and increase in noncontrolling interest expenses are mostly offset by accretion from the Zardoya transaction. We now have more visibility into the approval process and are increasingly optimistic in the timing of the delisting, and expect the transaction to be about $0.10 accretive in 2022. Lastly, we expect to reduce our adjusted tax rate by an additional 50 to 100 basis points this year, adding $0.02 to $0.03 to the EPS. This outlook represents fourth consecutive year of strong earnings growth as we continue to build on strong execution, mitigate the macro challenges, leverage the investments that we have made, and benefit from a continued end market recovery. And with that, I'll request Catherine to please open the line for questions. 