  OperatorWelcome to Cisco's third-quarter fiscal-year 2021 financial results conference call. At the request of Cisco, today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect. Now, I would like to introduce Marilyn Mora, head of investor relations. Ma'am, you may begin.Marilyn Mora -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Welcome, everyone, to Cisco's third-quarter fiscal 2021 quarterly earnings conference call. This is Marilyn Mora, head of investor relations, and I'm joined by Chuck Robbins, our chairman and CEO; and Scott Herren, our CFO. By now, you should have seen our earnings press release. A corresponding webcast with slides, including supplemental information, will be made available on our website in the Investor Relations section following the call. Income statements, full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation information, balance sheets, cash flow statements, and other financial information can also be found in the Financial Information section of our Investor Relations website. Throughout this conference call, we will be referencing both GAAP and non-GAAP financial results, and we'll discuss product results in terms of revenue and geographic and customer results in terms of product orders unless stated otherwise. All comparisons made throughout this call will be on a year-over-year basis. The matters we will be discussing today include forward-looking statements, including the guidance we will be providing for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021.They are subject to the risks and uncertainties, including COVID-19 that we discuss in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, specifically the most recent reports on forms 10-K and 10-Q, which identify the important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. With respect to guidance, please also see the slides and press release that accompany this call for further details. Cisco will not comment on its financial guidance during the quarter unless it is done through an explicit public disclosure. I will now turn it over to Chuck. Chuck Robbins -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Marilyn. Good afternoon, and thanks for joining today. I hope everyone is staying healthy and safe as we start to see the benefits of vaccine deployments and the continuing improvement in economic activity. I want to start by acknowledging our employees, customers, and partners in India, who are experiencing a devastating surge of COVID cases. Cisco is providing critical resources during this challenging time, and our thoughts remain with all of you. While many of us are seeing great progress in our recovery efforts, we must remain vigilant and adaptable as we manage the ongoing pandemic around the world. Turning to the quarter. We had impressive momentum in Q3, which gives me a great sense of optimism going forward. We returned to growth with revenue up 7%, driven by an improving macro environment, the strongest product portfolio in our history, and great execution by our teams. We saw broad-based demand across the business, led by our biggest growth opportunities: hybrid work, digital transformation, cloud, and continued strong uptake of our subscription-based offerings. We're also seeing early momentum in the ramping of key technology cycles that are long-term growth drivers for our business, such as 5G, 400-gig, and edge. The next phase of the recovery and the future of work will be heavily reliant on our technology. Cisco's end-to-end portfolio will serve as the foundation for next-generation infrastructure solutions, as well as cloud-enabled delivery models and innovation, allowing our customers to move with even greater speed and agility. This will require a significant investment cycle and reinforces the strength of our strategy while driving greater opportunity to create a world that is more connected, inclusive, and secure. We remain focused on accelerating innovation while simplifying the adoption of our offerings with networkwide automation, analytics, and flexible as a service consumption models, all aimed at improving our customers' network performance capabilities and security, which we believe will drive tremendous long-term opportunities for us. Our Q3 performance only reinforces my confidence about the future.

 



 These results reflect a return to a strong spending environment and an economic recovery that has gained momentum driven by vaccine rollouts and the easing of restrictions. As the economy has improved, customers have increased their investment across our portfolio to prepare for the upturn and return to office. In Q3, we saw 10% growth in product orders, the highest growth rate since Q1 of fiscal 2012, reflecting robust improvement across all of our customer segments and geographies. From a product revenue perspective, we saw 6% growth, led by strength across our portfolio, including campus switching, routing, wireless, security, collaboration, and web scale, as well as from our acquisition of Acacia, which closed during Q3. We continue to aggressively shift our business to more recurring revenue streams, which we expect to grow over time as we expand our offerings. In Q3, we achieved $3.8 billion in software revenue, with 81% of our software revenue sold as a subscription, up from 76% last quarter. We also saw another quarter of double-digit growth in our deferred revenue and remaining performance obligations. Over the past six years, we have made significant progress and now have one of the largest software businesses in the industry with an annual run rate well over $14 billion. Let me now touch on infrastructure platforms. We saw strong demand across the majority of our portfolio, led by our next-generation enterprise networking and service provider solutions as companies accelerate the modernization of their infrastructure. This modern infrastructure delivers higher performance and faster access to data while offering the best user experience in an increasingly distributed environment. Customers are turning to us to help them create the trusted workplace of the future with WiFi access points, video endpoints, cameras, and IoT sensors, feeding data into DNA center and DNA spaces. We are enabling operations teams to remotely monitor workplace conditions for a safe return to office. We are also working to provide visibility beyond corporate networks, which is increasingly critical as our customers accelerate their adoption of SaaS and cloud solutions for hybrid work. At Cisco Live, we launched the industry's first enterprisewide full-stack observability offering by integrating ThousandEyes cloud intelligence with our catalyst switching portfolio and AppDynamics. This provides IT with visibility and actionable insights across both external and internal networks to provide a seamless digital experience for users. And with users more distributed than ever, it is vital that they have the most efficient and secure connection to the cloud. Our deep partnerships with Google, Amazon, and Microsoft allow native connectivity from our SD-WAN fabric to each of these cloud offerings. With our technology, customers can reduce deployment times and connect branch offices to cloud workloads in minutes. In our web scale business, we delivered our sixth consecutive quarter of strong order growth, which increased over 25% in the quarter and over 50% on a trailing 12-month basis. Our web scale customers are starting their 400-gig upgrade cycles and aggressively pursuing long-haul build-outs, while our carrier customers are exploring new architectures to realize the full potential of 5G. We are building the Internet for the future by creating breakthrough innovation with our routing, optical, and automation technologies to deliver significant economic benefits. Recently, we launched a new routed optical networking solution, integrating our scalable, high-performance routers and Acacia's pluggable optics, which offers significant cost savings. Last week, we announced our intent to acquire Sedona Systems to extend our crosswork automation platform to build on these capabilities. We also expanded our Silicon One platform from a routing-focused solution to one which addresses the web scale switching market, offering 10 networking chips ranging from 3.2 to 25.6 terabits per second, making it the highest performance, programmable routing, and switching silicon on the market. We know our customers increasingly want to consume Cisco's technology in new, more flexible ways. At Cisco Live, we launched our new as a service portfolio, Cisco Plus, and our first offer, Cisco Plus hybrid cloud, combining our data center compute, networking, and storage portfolio. Cisco Plus includes our plans to deliver networking as a service, which will unify networking, security, and observability across access, WAN, and cloud domains to deliver an unparalleled experience for our customers. Turning to security. We had a record quarter, surpassing $875 million in revenue, up 13% as we expanded our reach with customers around the world. Our security strategy is focused on delivering a simple and secure experience. We have an unrivaled ability to provide end-to-end security capabilities across users, devices, applications, and data on any network or any cloud. This is the key reason why our customers trust us to help them proactively protect against and remediate threats. In fact, leading customers in every industry, including 100% of the Fortune 100 are using Cisco security solutions. These customers are increasingly deploying our zero-trust and secure access service edge or SASE architectures, along with automation, authentication, and analytics capabilities. With today's distributed workforce, companies must quickly deploy highly secure trusted access to critical applications everywhere without compromising performance. Customers like Ford are using our cloud-delivered security platform umbrella as they secure over 100,000 of their remote team members. And this quarter, Lyft turned to Cisco to strengthen their security protection for all of their users accessing their applications. By deploying our duo portfolio, Lyft was able to provide strong access controls as they protect their users' sensitive personal and financial information while reducing their total cost of ownership by more than 50%. With nearly $6 billion in annual R&D, the investment that Cisco is making in both security and the network continues to lead the momentum across our portfolio, with 23 consecutive quarters of double-digit umbrella cloud security growth, nearly 7,000 customers using our cloud-native SecureX platform, and strong platform growth with security enterprise agreements. We continue to expand our leadership with new innovations, including passwordless authentication, data loss prevention, observability, cloud-based malware detection, and enhancements to SecureX. We're also complementing our organic innovation with assets that enable greater security efficacy. Our intent to acquire Kenna Security will bring together their risk-based vulnerability management platform with SecureX's threat management capabilities to prioritize and more effectively manage overall risk. Lastly, let me touch on applications. Our collaboration business continues to perform well. We had a record quarter in Webex as we execute against our strategy to power the future of hybrid work. Over the last six months, we've added more than 400 new features and devices to our Webex portfolio. We are enabling seamless experiences through our desk camera and desk hub solutions while extending the Webex suite of devices, including digital signage, touchless calls, room capacity alerts, and environmental sensors to help enable a safe return to the office. Well-being is top of mind for so many right now as we face a new way of working. This is why we launched People Insights to help people monitor and manage their well-being. These new features, devices, and capabilities, combined with cloud calling and cloud contact center, provide our customers with the most comprehensive and inclusive hybrid work platform. Last week, we announced our intent to acquire Socio Labs. By integrating Slido and Socio Labs into our Webex platform, we will also be able to provide the most comprehensive internal and external event management solution on the market. In summary, we had a very good quarter. I'm so proud of the continued success of the business transformation our teams are driving. As I mentioned earlier, we are experiencing the strongest demand in nearly a decade. We are also seeing similar component shortage supply issues as our peers. The good news, and this is reflected in our guidance, is that we are confident we will work through this as we have already put in place revised arrangements with several of our key suppliers. We believe these actions will enable us to optimize our access to critical components, including semiconductors, and take care of our customers by fulfilling their demand as quickly as possible. Our strategy and commitment to leading with trust, innovation, and choice, along with our continued focus and discipline are positioning us well for growth and profitability. As we accelerate the pace of innovation for our customers and partners, it's critical that we continue to support our people, our communities, and our planet. I'm very proud that Cisco was recently named the No. 1 Best Place to Work in the United States by Fortune and Great Place to Work. This is a tremendous honor for us as it recognizes the incredible work of our people and the power of the culture we have created. And lastly, in terms of actions we are taking to protect the planet, last month, the Cisco Foundation announced $100 million over 10 years to fund nonprofit grants and impact investing in climate solutions. We have already achieved 100% renewable energy in the U.S. and in many countries across Europe, and this is another strong step forward. Whether it's our deep focus on delivering the best results for our customers, partners, and employees, or our commitment to making a difference in communities across the world, Cisco remains committed to our purpose, to power an inclusive future for all. I'm quite optimistic about what's ahead and confident in our team's ability to deliver. I'll now turn it over to Scott.Scott Herren -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Chuck. Last quarter, I identified four key priorities that we are using to define our financial strategy: driving profitable growth; a continued disciplined focus on financial management and operating efficiency; setting a long-term plan to maximize value creation through strategic transformation; and examining investments, both organic and inorganic. We made progress on all these fronts in Q3 and are continuing to build our financial approach based on these core pillars, providing a strong foundation for enhanced financial performance, as well as long-term value creation for our shareholders. Now, let's turn to our results. I'll start with a summary of our financial results for the quarter, followed by the guidance for Q4. As Chuck said, Q3 was a strong quarter across the business. We executed well with strong product orders and solid growth in revenue, net income, and earnings per share. Total revenue increased to $12.8 billion, up 7% year on year, exceeding the high end of our guidance range for the quarter. We saw broad strength in all product areas and geographies. We also saw continued recovery in our business and building momentum with sequential revenue growth of 7%. Our non-GAAP operating margin was 33.6%. Non-GAAP net income was $3.5 billion, up 4%; and non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.83, up 5% year on year, coming in above the high end of our EPS guidance range. Now, let me provide more detail on our Q3 revenue. Total product revenue was $9.1 billion, up 6%. Service revenue was $3.7 billion, up 8%. Infrastructure platforms has rebounded nicely, with revenues up 6%. Within that, switching revenue increased overall with growth in campus, driven by strong double-digit growth of our Catalyst 9000 products. Routing had strong double-digit growth, driven by strength in the service provider market. Wireless had strong growth driven by the continued ramp of our WiFi 6 products and strength in Meraki. Data center revenue declined, driven primarily by servers as we experienced continued market contraction. Applications were up 5%. We continue to see double-digit growth in Webex, driven by our product innovations and the value we bring to remote working. We saw growth in unified communications, IoT software, and AppDynamics, offset by a decline in telepresence endpoints. Security was up 13% with growth across the entire portfolio. Our cloud security portfolio performed well with strong double-digit growth and continued momentum of our Duo and umbrella offerings. And we continue to transform our business, delivering more software offerings and driving growth in subscriptions and recurring revenue. Software revenue was $3.8 billion and subscriptions were 81% of total software revenue, up 7 points year on year. As we continue to increase our software subscriptions, we're driving higher levels of recurring revenues. In fact, the majority of our total revenue growth in the quarter came from recurring revenue streams. Additionally, the strength of our portfolio and transition to more software and services is driving growth in remaining performance obligations or RPO. At the end of Q3, RPOs were $28.1 billion, up 10%. RPO for product was up 15% and for service was up 7%. There was a 90-basis-point positive impact on revenue growth in the quarter related to the acquisitions of Acacia and IMImobile, which both closed during the quarter. As a reminder, these acquisitions were not factored into our Q3 revenue guide. We had strong order momentum in Q3 with total product orders up 10%. Looking at our geographies, the Americas were up 6%, EMEA was up 10%, and APJC was up 31%. Total emerging markets were up 13%, with the BRICS plus Mexico up 31%. In our customer segments, service provider was up 17%, commercial was up 16%, public sector was up 11%. Enterprise was flat, which is a significant improvement from last quarter. Non-GAAP total gross margin came in at the high end of our guidance range at 66%, down 60 basis points year over year. Product gross margin was 64.9%, down 90 basis points. And service gross margin was 68.7%, down 20 basis points. The decrease in product gross margin was largely driven by ongoing costs related to the supply chain challenges, offset by positive product mix, which includes some software benefit. Price erosion was relatively moderate and in line with our historical range. On the supply chain front, we continue to manage through the constraints seeing industrywide and continue to incur additional costs. We are partnering with our key suppliers, leveraging our volume purchasing and extending supply commitments as we address the supply chain challenges, which we expect will continue. The quarter did include an extra week, as we discussed on our last call. Consistent with our guidance for the quarter, the benefit to total revenue was approximately 3 points of growth. Total impact on our cost of sales and operating expenses was approximately $150 million. Operating cash flow was $3.9 billion, down 8%, driven by the timing of payments and restructuring costs. We expect operating cash flow to normalize for the full fiscal year. We ended Q3 with total cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $23.6 billion, down $7 billion sequentially, driven by $5.5 billion in payments for acquisitions, as well as $3 billion in repayments of our long-term debt. From a capital allocation perspective, we returned $2.1 billion to shareholders during the quarter that was comprised of $1.6 billion for our quarterly dividend and $510 million of share repurchases. Year to date, we returned $6.7 billion to shareholders, which represents 64% of our free cash flow, and we have $8.7 billion in capacity remaining under our current share repurchase program authorization. We continue to invest organically and inorganically in our innovation pipeline. During Q3, we closed three acquisitions: Acacia Communications, IMImobile, and Dashbase. Subsequent to the end of the quarter, we also successfully closed on our acquisition of Slido on May 4. These investments are consistent with our strategy of complementing our internal innovation and R&D with targeted M&A to allow us to further strengthen and differentiate our market position in our growth areas. To summarize, we had a great Q3. We executed well with strong top-line growth and profitability. We're seeing returns on the investments we're making in innovation and driving the continued shift to more software and subscriptions, delivering growth, and driving shareholder value. Now, let's turn to our guidance for the fourth quarter of fiscal '21. This guidance is subject to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking information that Marilyn referred to earlier. Our financial guidance for Q4 is as follows: we expect revenue growth to be in the range of 6% to 8% year on year, reflecting, again, the strong demand we're seeing. We anticipate the non-GAAP gross margin to be in the range of 64% to 65%, reflecting the ongoing increase in supply chain costs we are incurring as we protect shipments to our customers; our non-GAAP operating margin is expected to be in the range of 32% to 33%, and the non-GAAP tax rate is expected to be 19%; non-GAAP earnings per share is expected to range from $0.81 to $0.83. Looking ahead, we're excited to announce we will host a virtual Cisco Financial Analyst Day on Wednesday, September 15, 2021. We will post event details in the coming weeks and look forward to sharing more with you at that time. I'll now turn it back to Marilyn so we can move into the Q&A.Marilyn Mora -- Head of Investor Relations Thanks, Scott. Michelle, let's go ahead and begin the Q&A. 