
OperatorGood morning, my name is Laurie, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Viatris First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. I will now turn the call over to Melissa Trombetta, Head of Global Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Melissa Trombetta -- Head of Global Investor RelationsThank you, Laurie. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Viatris's first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Joining me on this call are Viatris's Chief Executive Officer, Michael Goettler; President, Rajiv Malik; Chief Financial Officer, Sanjeev Narula; Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, Paul Campbell; and Bill Szablewski, Head of Capital Markets. While some of us are in remote locations, I would ask for your patience, should we encounter any technical difficulties.

 



During today's call we will be making forward-looking statements on a number of matters, including our financial guidance for 2021. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause future results or events to differ materially from today's projections. Please refer to the earnings release that we furnished to the SEC on Form 8-K earlier today for a fuller explanation of those risks and uncertainties and the limits applicable to forward-looking statements. We also posted supplemental slides on our website at investor.viatris.com. Viatris routinely posts information that may be important to investors on this website, and we use this website address as a means of disclosing material information to the public in a broad, non-exclusionary manner for purposes of the SEC's Regulation Fair Disclosure. We also will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures, including free cash flow and adjusted EBITDA. We will reference such measures in order to supplement your understanding and assessment of our first quarter 2021 financial results and financial guidance for 2021.Non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for or superior to financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The most directly comparable GAAP measures, as well as reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures to those GAAP measures, are available in our first quarter 2021 earnings release and supplemental earnings slides, as well as in the Investors section. In addition, solely to supplement your understanding and assessment of our first quarter 2021 financial performance, we have provided in our earnings release and supplemental slides, and will discuss during today's call, certain financial measures relating to the first quarter of 2020, including combined result of legacy Mylan and the Upjohn business, with indicated adjustments, which do not reflect pro forma results in accordance with ASC 805, or Article 11 of Regulation S-X. Such measures do not reflect the effect of any purchase accounting adjustments.Let me also remind you that the information discussed during this call, except for the participants' questions, is the property of Viatris, and cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Viatris's expressed written permission. An archived copy of today's call will be available on our website, and will remain available for a limited time.With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Michael.

 



Michael Goettler -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Melissa, and good morning, and thanks for joining us for our first quarterly earnings call of Viatris. I'm pleased to say that we're off to a strong start, with high-quality first quarter results across the board. And this strong performance comes at a time when the COVID-19 global pandemic continues to evolve, taking different courses across the many geographies in which Viatris operates. We are grateful to our colleagues around the world who continue to put patients first, ensuring stable access to needed medicines, particularly in India, and parts of Latin America, where significant resurgence has impacted our teams there. The health and safety of our colleagues and their families, is our highest priority. And we support in the continually evolving situation around the globe with urgency, with care, and with compassion. And for our patients, we're working diligently to bring the medicines they need, including ramping up the production of anti-viral medicines Remdesivir in India, and closely partnering with the government there, to ensure access to this critical medicine.Back when we launched Viatris in November 2020, our vision was to build a new kind of healthcare company, differentiated by a global operating platform with significant scale, and commercial capabilities, and expertise across science, manufacturing, legal, and IP. A broad diverse product portfolio that includes brands, complex generics, and biosimilars, and generics, and is agnostic to therapeutic categories, dosage forms, and delivery mechanisms, and a strong R&D platform that is well-positioned to deliver a broad pipeline of complex novel products, including late stage biosimilar programs. Our strong first quarter results validate the success of a diversified and robust business that can absorb headwinds in any individual part of the business, while seizing market opportunities, where and when they present themselves.In the first quarter, we reported net sales of $4.4 billion, adjusted EBITDA of $1.6 billion, and free cash flow of $799 million, which were above our original expectations. These results reflect the strength of our business, and we're also partially helped by favorable timing of some revenue and expenses, and by favorable FX.

 



Now, let me give you some key highlights for the quarter. The strength of our business was driven by solid performance across all four of our commercial segments, Developed Markets, Greater China, Emerging Markets, and JANZ, which is Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Excluding the effect of LOE, the loss of exclusivity of Lyrica in Japan, and Celebrex in Japan, this quarter, we would have reported 3% growth on actual exchange rate basis, or 2% decline on a constant currency basis, as compared to the combined LOE adjusted quarter 1, 2020 results. Lyrica, Japan is our last major LOE, and we see no further significant LOEs impacting our business in the coming years. This quarter we generated $163 million in new product revenue, to partially offset inherent product erosion, and we're on track to achieve $690 million in new product revenue for the full-year.We are continuing to shift to more differentiated and sustainable portfolio, with strong growth in complex generics and biosimilars, and growth of our recently acquired Thrombosis franchise in Europe. Regarding our pipeline, this quarter, we received notable approvals in Europe for Insulin Aspart and Bevacizumab, and we made significant progress on many key pipeline projects, which Rajiv will discuss later in more detail.With regard to the integration of our two legacy companies, we are pleased to say, our plans are progressing smoothly. This quarter, I also had the opportunity to meet remotely with hundreds of colleagues around the world, and I continue to be impressed with the talent, the passion, and the engagement that we have at Viatris. We are well on our way to forming as one team, and making our performance driven, highly engaging, and inclusive culture, a reality. And for our shareholders, we're delivering on our commitments. The Viatris Board has declared inaugural quarterly dividend of $0.11 a share, consistent with 25% of the midpoint of the 2021 full-year free cash flow guidance. We are on track to achieve $500 million in synergies this year. We are on plan, and continue to target $6.5 billion in debt repayment by 2023. And we are reporting our first quarter results with the enhanced disclosures and transparency, that we previously committed to.We're also aware of the interest by our shareholders in the sustainability of our business, and our commitment to corporate social responsibility. And sustainability is fundamental to our mission, and embedded in everything we do. And I'm pleased to share that we published our inaugural sustainability report at Viatris. More details of that can be found on our website, including a deeper look at Viatris's role in the important fight against COVID-19.In closing, we're proud to report a very strong and high-quality first quarter. We're seeing underlying strength in our business, and we are reaffirming our full year financial guidance for 2021, which incorporates the known potential headwinds and tailwinds for the remainder of the year. At the conclusion of the second quarter, we will be reassessing, whether to update guidance for the full-year. And while we're not giving long-term guidance at this time, we continue to feel strongly that 2021 is our trough year, as defined by the midpoint of our guidance of $6.2 billion of adjusted EBITDA. We believe that, that $6.2 billion is a true flow of our business, not just for this year, but also for future years.Now, with that, let me turn it over to Rajiv, to give you more details about our segment results, pipeline progress, and restructuring and integration efforts. Rajiv?Rajiv Malik -- PresidentThank you, Michael, and good morning, everyone. I would like to say hello to our employees around the world, and thank them for all of their hard work, and commitment to Viatris. I would especially like to recognize my colleagues and friends in India and express my deepest sympathies to everyone who is enduring a very difficult situation as the pandemic resurges in the parts of the world.Earlier this year, we shared with you our approach to execute our '21 plan, minimizing the base business erosion, executing the new launches, and integrate and synergize. I'm very pleased to inform you that we are off to a great start. I'll be making certain comparisons to combined LOE adjusted quarter one 2020 results on a constant currency basis, as well as comparison versus our expectations as included in our full-year guidance.Beginning on slide 10, our business performed better than expectations but was down 2% in this quarter as compared to combine LOE adjusted quarter one 2020 results. Our brand business performed better than our expectations driven by products such as EpiPen, Amitiza, Lipitor, and Viagra. Our complex generics and biosimilar business grew by 27% largely driven by biosimilars, and our global Generics business performed in line with our expectations. We delivered $163 million for the new launches and remain on track to meet our $690 million target for the year. We continue to expect normalized base business erosion of 3% to 4% for the year.Our Developed Markets segment performed better than our expectations this quarter. Our brand portfolio performance was driven by higher EpiPen sales in the US, largely due to vaccination related buying. Yupelri, our first nebulized LAMA performed in line with our expectations and we are well positioned to expand this market. Our European brand business was helped by Creon, Dymista, as well as our Thrombosis portfolio acquired from Aspen, highlighting our ability to effectively manage our portfolio of established brands. Our complex generics and biosimilar portfolio grew by 27% in developed markets, largely driven by pegfilgrastim, trastuzumab, as well as adalimumab biosimilars.Our generics portfolio performed in line with our expectations once adjusted for COVID surge buying in the first quarter of 2020, which accounts for half of the year-over-year decline. I would like to provide a bit more color around our US generics business, which is approximately 11% of our total business now. Our current generics portfolio is now a combination of diversified product forms including extended release oral solids, injectables, transformers, and topicals. We implemented our disciplined approach to resource allocation, and portfolio management, including the rationalization of negative margin products. We believe that extending this approach to our overall business will help us manage our base business more effectively. Looking ahead, we have assumed increased competition for our complex products like Xulane, Wixela, glatiramer acetate, in addition to the loss of exclusivity of performance.Moving to the next slide, our Emerging Markets segment performed in line with expectations. Our business was affected by the negative impact of COVID on our lifestyle brands, as well as a one-time impact of change in go-to-market strategy in Vietnam. We see our complex generics and biosimilar business growing over the year driven by a number of new launches in multiple countries. Our generics business was roughly flat and in line with expectations. Our Gen segment grew 14%, as we adjusted for one-time Lyrica, Celebrex LOEs. Our brand portfolio in Japan had a strong performance driven by Amitiza, Lipitor, and Creon. Lyrica LOE is performing to our expectations. We also launched the first adalimumab biosimilar in Japan. Our generics business performed strongly.Now to slide 14, our Greater China segment performed strongly and grew by 9%. This was primarily driven by 30% growth of our retail channel, better than expected hospital channel performance, as well as the benefit from the COVID recovery. Our retail channel now represents 40% of our China business. We have assumed the full impact of VBP for '21, as well as mid-year implementation of URP in certain regions. As already mentioned on our guidance call, the trough of our China business will be determined by the timing of the full implementation of URP. We see continued momentum, and we look forward to investing in our pipeline in this region. Out of 25 products, we identified for Greater China, we are well positioned to file six regulatory submissions in '21.Now, switching to providing more details around the impact of the COVID-19. India is currently going through its worst pandemic phase, and we are doing everything possible to protect the health and safety of our employees in India. We are also working closely with the health authorities to maintain supply of Remdesivir. We have a broad, diverse, and resilient global manufacturing and supply chain footprint. We are not depending on any one country or a site. Even in India, our manufacturing footprint is spread over five different states which mitigates the risk of disruption in any given part of the country. As Viatris, our reliance on India as a supply hub has relatively come down as compared to legacy Mylan. The diversity of our network helped us achieve an approximately 95% customer service levels across the globe last year. We are continuously monitoring our inventories and currently are in a strong position from a supply point of view to meet our customer needs across the globe.I would now like to share some key updates on our pipeline shared with you on Investor Day. I'll start with our biosimilar franchise on Slide 17. Our 351k Insulin Glargine for interchangeability is on track for a July FDA goal date. Our Insulin Aspart is also tracking toward its FDA goal date in July and is expected to include interchangeability. We are making steady progress for our biosimilar to BOTOX, and recently submitted our briefing package to FDA for agreement on Phase III. We have just received top-line results for our clinical Phase III study for our biosimilar to Eylea, and are pleased to report that we have met the primary endpoint for this study. We received European approval for the biosimilar to Avastin and Insulin Aspart. While we no longer have any open frankly questions with the FDA, our US approval of biosimilar to Avastin has been impacted by the delay in a pre-approval inspection due to COVID travel restrictions.The next slide shows our complex product pipeline. For our glatiramer acetate once-monthly, we have dosed more than 900 patients and are on track for our submission at the end of 2022. We also achieved positive results in Phase II trial for Meloxicam, which was designed as a proof of concept study for a quicker onset of acute pain relief as an alternative to opioids. We are excited that we have advanced, a new low dose formulation of Xulane, which we formerly called MR-100. We are expecting this product to be one of the smallest low dose package in its class, and our Phase III clinical trial has been initiated.The next slide shows our continued progress in our complex injectable pipeline. Our Octreotide MR injection clinical study is well under way to support our US submission. Clinical study for EU Trinza are on track for quarter two 2021. We are also in the process of initiating clinical studies for amphotericin B, previously MR-118. I'll finish with an update on our integration and restructuring program. As you can see on slide 21, we remain on track to realize $500 million of cost synergies this year. Our workforce actions are well under way, including a recently announced voluntary retirement program in Japan, which is on schedule. As we announced earlier this year, the rationalization of 13 manufacturing sites have been identified, and closure or divestiture activities are in process. We are working very closely with regulators and our customers, to avoid any supply disruptions, and are building appropriate safety stocks. With all of these actions under way, we remain confident, that we will exceed our target of $1 billion in cumulative cost savings by 2023.Let me now turn the call over to Sanjeev. Thank you.Sanjeev Narula -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, and good morning everyone. As Michael and Rajiv mentioned, we're off to a strong start, and I'll walk you through the key drivers, and how we see certain trends shaping up for the rest of the year. As you will see in coming slides, I'll make comparison to prior year Mylan stand-alone, combined, adjusted, as well as our 2021 expectations.On slide 23, we have summarized our results versus prior year on a reported basis, which reflect Mylan stand-alone results for quarter one, 2020. Adjusted gross margin and adjusted EBITDA benefited from contributions of Upjohn branded products, and the strength of China, which was driven by stable sales, and hospital business, and retail growth including COVID recovery. In total, these factors led to a significant increase in financial strength, including profitability and cash flow generation.Moving to slide 24, I have highlighted the drivers in the quarter compared to combined adjusted Q1 2020 results. As a reminder, this chart reflect the sum of Mylan stand-alone results, and Upjohn Financial for a period of January 1st, 2020 to March 31st, 2020, adjusted for certain transaction related items, including divested products, in connection with the Combination.A few key comments on this chart. Beginning with LOEs, as Rajiv mentioned, generic penetration is tracking in line with our expectation, and year-on-year Lyrica and Celebrex in Japan are down by $206 million. COVID continues to negatively impact our business, as a result of lower volumes across many of key markets, particularly Europe, where we saw pre-COVID surge buying last year, and to a lesser extent in the U.S. In China, we saw favorable impacts due to COVID recovery. While we are still anticipating a gradual recovery beginning in the second half, the recovery is likely to be slower across some emerging markets. Base business erosion was driven by normal price erosion, and volume declines in the U.S, Europe, and Emerging Markets. And for rest of the year, we still forecast the erosion of about 3% to 4%. We're off to a good start with new products. Revenue was primarily driven by European Thrombosis business, which grew versus prior year, and additional uptick of complex generics and biosimilars.Lastly, with respect to foreign exchange, it's important to remember, approximately 70% of our business is outside the U.S. In the quarter, the weaker dollar relative to key currencies, such as euro, Chinese RMB, provided approximately 5% tailwind compared to our combined adjusted 2020 revenue results. Moving forward. If rate remains at the current level, we expect a continued tailwind from foreign exchange, consistent with full-year guidance, but not to the level realized in quarter one.Moving to slide 25, which bridges adjusted EBITDA. The year-on-year margin is declining because of item listed on the bridge. As you will recall from our 2021 financial guidance bridge, we were impacted by lower depreciation and amortization, associated with Pfizer TSA, which negatively impacts EBITDA.Turning to slide 26. Free cash flow came in above our expectations, driven by strong operating performance, benefits from working capital improvement initiatives, and timing of one-time cost and capex. For the quarter, one-time cash costs were approximately $340 million, primarily related to integration cost in TSA start-up. For quarter two, we expect both to increase over Q1 levels. With respect to cash flow phasing, we expect Q2 cash flow to be significantly reduced versus Q1, and expected to be our lowest for the year. The decline is driven by expected increase in one-time cash cost, interest payments, which occur semi-annually in Q2 and Q4, and increase in capital expenditure.Turning to our balance sheet. Strong cash flow allowed us to pay down approximately $1 billion in short-term debt. We anticipate that Q2 short-term debt will increase as a result of June maturity of $2.25 billion, final payment of European Thrombosis business, and the quarterly dividend. From a capital deployment standpoint, we declared our first quarterly dividend, which is consistent with our guidance framework. We do not expect the $0.11 per share amount to change for subsequent quarters in 2021, but all future dividend declarations are subject to Board approval. Overall, we remain on track with our 2021 free cash flow guidance of $2 billion to $2.3 billion.Moving to slide 28. As you heard from Michael earlier, we are reaffirming our full-year 2021 guidance ranges, based on a strong start we saw in Q1, balanced by expected headwinds for the remainder of the year. In terms of revenue phasing, we expect Q2 2021 to be roughly in line with Q1 2021, due to modest recovery from COVID in Europe, continued strong performance in China, offset by expected negative impact of LOEs, competition, and more normalized EpiPen sales. Going forward, these items would pressure our gross margin to be more in line with our guidance range. As we look out to Q2, we expect SG&A to be in line with Q1 on an absolute basis. On a full-year basis, we expect SG&A to be within our previously indicated range of 20.5% to 21.5%. Given these dynamics, it is likely that Q1 will be the highest adjusted EBITDA quarter. Overall, I'm really pleased with the execution in this quarter, and the commitment we delivered against, including the initiation of dividend.With that, let me open the call to Q&A. Operator?