

Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Akamai Technologies Inc. third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Barth, head of investor relations.
Thank you. Please go ahead.
Tom Barth -- Head of Investor Relations

 




Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining Akamai's third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Speaking today will be Tom Leighton, Akamai's chief executive officer; and Ed McGowan, Akamai's chief financial officer. Before we get started, please note that today's comments include forward-looking statements, including statements regarding revenue and earnings guidance.
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. These factors include uncertainty stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic, the integration of any acquisitions and any impact from unexpected geopolitical developments. Additional information concerning these factors is contained in Akamai's filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this call represent the company's view on November 2, 2021.

Akamai disclaims any obligation to update these statements to reflect future events or circumstances. As a reminder, we will be referring to some non-GAAP financial metrics during today's call. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP metrics can be found under the financial portion of the investor relations section of akamai.com. And with that, let me turn the call over to Tom.
Tom Leighton -- Chief Executive Officer

 




Thanks, Tom, and thank you all for joining us today. I'm pleased to report that Akamai delivered excellent financial results in the third quarter, coming in at or above the high end of our guidance ranges for revenue, operating margin and earnings per share. Q3 revenue was $860 million, up 9% year over year and up 8% in constant currency. Non-GAAP operating margin in Q3 was 32%, which reflects our continued focus on operational efficiency, even as we've continued to invest for future growth.
Q3 non-GAAP EPS was $1.45 per diluted share, up 11% year over year. Akamai's strong performance in Q3 was largely driven by our security business, which is now one of the leading cloud security businesses in the world. With an annualized revenue run rate of more than $1.3 billion, up 26% year over year and up 25% in constant currency. Over the last several years, we've grown our security portfolio from point solutions into a comprehensive platform that provides defense in depth to address our customers' biggest threats.
The unique breadth of our defenses is important to our customers who want more security capabilities from fewer vendors. Our security solutions are highly differentiated and recognized as best-in-class by our customers. who see us as a leading provider of services that protect their most critical assets, including enterprise websites, applications, data and access. We routinely earn top rankings in multiple categories from major industry analysts.
For example, Akamai disrupted the web app security market when we launched Kona Site Defender in 2012. Since then, we've continued to extend our leadership position in the web app firewall sector with Gartner recently naming Akamai as a market leader for the fifth year in a row. Akamai has been the market leader in DDoS protection since we acquired Prolexic in 2014. Forrester recently said, "large enterprise clients that want an experienced trusted vendor to make their DDoS problem go away, should look to Akamai." As new threat vectors have emerged, we've extended our platform to defend against them.

 




For example, we created the first comprehensive bot management solution to protect our customers from sophisticated bot operators who try to steal content, disrupt operations or penetrate user accounts. According to Forrester, Akamai is best for companies wanting to fort bots at the edge. Bloomberg Business Week, even quoted a hacker, calling Akamai Bot Defense, "the hardest to crack." More recently, we released Akamai Page Integrity Manager to identify malicious code in third-party scripts and websites that's designed to steal end user data. Page Integrity Manager helps to address a major threat that's been costing businesses, hundreds of millions of dollars and fines as well as serious reputation damage.
We plan to extend our web app protections further in the coming months with the release of account protector and audience high jacking prevention. Account Protector is designed to reduce fraud by making sure that the entity logging into an account is the true owner of that account. Audience hijacking prevention can help businesses protect sales by fording malware that diverts a customer just before the completion of a transaction. Since founding Akamai over 20 years ago, our vision has always been to help our customers solve their toughest Internet challenges.
And today, that includes stopping ransomware. Ransomware is a huge problem for enterprises around the world with a new attack striking every 11 seconds. The damage resulting from ransomware is expected to amount to over $20 billion this year alone. Guardicore is critical to stopping the spread of ransomware, and that's a key reason why we acquired the company.
Akamai is already selling solutions, such as Enterprise Application Access, that help prevent attackers from gaining access to enterprise infrastructure and applications. But to be secure in today's world, you also need a second layer of defense to block the spread of malware that has gained a foothold in the enterprise. And that's where Guardicore comes in. Guardicore helps detect when a breach has occurred by identifying anomalous data flows within enterprise networks.
Guardicore also helps prevent the malware from spreading through a capability known as micro-segmentation. Guardicore's micro-segmentation solution limits access within the enterprise to only those applications that are authorized to communicate with one another. Denying communication as the default greatly limits the spread of malware and protects the flow of enterprise data across the network. And that's the key to stopping ransomware.
We believe Guardicore's best-in-class micro-segmentation solution is the perfect addition to our Zero Trust portfolio, enabling Akamai to offer customers a comprehensive solution to stop the damage being caused by ransomware and malware. During the call we held on September 29, we spoke about the parallels between our acquisition of Guardicore with our acquisition of Prolexic in 2014. Just as the acquisition of Prolexic propelled us to a leadership position in helping to stop DDoS attacks. We believe that the acquisition of Guardicore will establish Akamai as a leader in helping to stop the damage caused by ransomware as well as other forms of malware.Customers see Akamai as a strategic partner in security, not only because of the strength and breadth of our solutions, but also because of the depth of our security expertise and threat intelligence and the scale of our platform.
The same platform that underpins our world-leading CDN. Akamai CDN handles over five trillion requests every day. In addition, we resolved more than three trillion DNS queries each day. This gives us unmatched real-time insight into the world's Internet traffic, which we analyze to provide best-in-class threat intelligence, protection and support.
We also have one of the industry's largest and most experienced teams of security professionals with thousands of engineers and consultants working on security for our customers. Our security solutions are tightly integrated into the world's largest and most distributed edge platform, and that provides unmatched global scale to defend customers against not only the largest DDoS attacks, but also against the vast spot armies that are waging attacks from the edge. The integration of our security solutions with our CDM solutions also provides benefits to our customers in terms of improved performance and ease of use. With Akamai, security and performance go hand in hand.
You can buy them together as a single protect and perform package, which makes purchasing and integration easy for the customer. And when you buy security from Akamai, your performance has automatically improved. That's because we apply the security layer as we are delivering the content from the world's True Edge platform. This means that the processing needed for security stays close to the end user, which makes for much better performance.
Akamai's unique combination of security and delivery provides a powerful offering in the market. which is one reason by we're the market leaders in both security and CDN. Our CDN business also generates substantial cash that we can use to invest in future growth, as we've recently done with the Guardicore acquisition. For example, our CDN business generated revenue of $526 million in Q3 and contributed substantially to our overall free cash flow of $273 million, enough to cover almost half of what we spent to acquire Guardicore.
We believe that having the world's largest and most distributed edge network also provides a great foundation for the growth of our Edge applications business. As 5G rolls out as IoT applications proliferate and as more data is created and processed at the edge, Akamai's edge compute platform is very well suited to support the high throughput and low latency applications that are not well served by traditional cloud providers today. From delivery and performance to compute and security, the world's leading brands want our help. That's because the Internet is getting more complicated, with more traffic, higher user expectations and more cyber threats every day.
And the world's leading enterprises know that Akamai can help keep their digital experiences close to their end users and the threats farther away. They know that what we do makes life better for billions of people, billions of times a day and that nobody powers and protects life online like Akamai. I'll now turn the call over to Ed to provide further details on our Q3 results and our outlook for the rest of the year. Ed?
Ed McGowan -- Chief Financial Officer
Thank you, Tom. As Tom just outlined, Akamai delivered another excellent quarter. Q3 revenue was $860 million, up 9% year over year or 8% in constant currency. Revenue was again driven by very strong results in our Security business.
Revenue from our Security Technology Group was $335 million, up 26% year over year or 25% in constant currency. Security now accounts for 39% of our total revenue. Revenue from our Edge technology group was $526 million, flat year over year and down 1% in constant currency. Foreign exchange fluctuations had a negative impact on revenue of $5 million on a sequential basis and positive $4 million on a year-over-year basis.
International revenue was $412 million, up 16% year over year or 15% in constant currency. Sales in our international markets represented 48% of total revenue in Q3 and up three points from Q3 2020 and up one point from Q2 levels. Finally, revenue from our U.S. market was $449 million, up 3% year over year.
Moving now to costs. Cash gross margin was 76%, in line with our expectations. GAAP gross margin, which includes both depreciation and stock-based compensation, was 63%. Non-GAAP cash operating expenses were $261 million.
Now moving on to profitability. Adjusted EBITDA was $396 million. Our adjusted EBITDA margin was 46%. Non-GAAP operating income was $277 million, and non-GAAP operating margin was 32%.
Capital expenditures in Q3, excluding equity compensation and capitalized interest expense, were $129 million. This was below our guidance range, primarily due to continued progress on network capex efficiency projects. GAAP net income for the third quarter was $179 million or $1.08 of earnings per diluted share. Non-GAAP net income was $239 million or $1.45 of earnings per diluted share, up 11% year over year, up 10% in constant currency and $0.04 above the high end of our guidance range.
Taxes included in our non-GAAP earnings were $39 million, based on a Q3 effective tax rate of approximately 14%. Moving now to cash and our use of capital. As of September 30, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $2.8 billion. After accounting for the $2.3 billion of combined principal amounts of our two convertible notes, net cash was approximately $452 million as of September 30.
During the third quarter, we spent approximately $97 million to repurchase shares, buying back approximately 800,000 shares. We ended Q3 with approximately $321 million remaining on our current repurchase authorization, which runs through the end of this year. As noted in today's press release, our Board authorized a new buyback program of up to $1.8 billion, beginning January 1, 2022, and running through the end of 2024. As we previously discussed, our primary intention is to buy back shares to offset dilution from employee equity programs over time.
However, our repurchase authorizations also allow us to opportunistically deploy capital if or when we believe there is a valuation disconnect in the market based on business or market conditions. Combining the two authorizations, we currently have more than $2 billion available for share repurchases through the end of 2024. We believe our strong balance sheet and significant free cash flow generation, which totaled $273 million or 32% of total revenue in Q3, also provides us with significant financial flexibility to pursue a balanced capital deployment strategy. As such, we plan to continue to invest organically in R&D and product development, expand our capabilities through M&A, as you saw with our most recent acquisition of Guardicore and return capital to shareholders via share repurchases.
Moving on to Q4 guidance. There are two factors to consider as you update your models for the fourth quarter. First, we closed the acquisition of Guardicore on October 20. Our guidance assumes Guardicore will contribute approximately $6 million to $7 million of revenue in Q4.
It also assumes that Guardicore will be approximately $0.05 dilutive to our total non-GAAP earnings per share in Q4. Second, as in prior years, seasonality plays a large role in determining our fourth quarter financial performance. We typically see higher than normal traffic for our large media customers and from seasonal online retail activity for our e-commerce customers, which are both difficult to predict. With that in mind, we are projecting Q4 revenue in the range of $883 million to $908 million or up 4% to 7%, as reported, or 5% to 8% in constant currency over Q4 2020.
Foreign exchange fluctuations are expected to have a negative $3 million impact on Q4 revenue compared to Q3 levels and a negative $6 million impact year over year. At these revenue levels, we expect cash gross margins of approximately 76%. Q4 non-GAAP operating expenses are projected to be $290 million to $201 million. We anticipate Q4 EBITDA margins of approximately 43% to 44%.
We expect non-GAAP depreciation expense to be between $120 million to $121 million. Factoring in this guidance, we expect non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 30% for Q4. Moving on to capex. We expect to spend approximately $128 million to $133 million, excluding equity compensation in the fourth quarter.
This represents less than 15% of anticipated total revenue. And with the overall revenue and spend configuration I just outlined, we expect Q4 non-GAAP EPS in the range of $1.37 to $1.44. This EPS guidance assumes taxes of $38 million to $39 million based on an estimated quarterly non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 14.5%. It also reflects a fully diluted share count of approximately 164 million shares.
Looking ahead to the full year, we are raising our guidance. We now expect revenue of 3.439 million to $3.44 billion, which is up 8% year over year as reported or up 7% in constant currency. We now expect security revenue growth to be in the mid-20% range for the full year 2021. We are estimating non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 31% and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $5.63 to $5.69.
And this non-GAAP earnings guidance is based on a non-GAAP effective tax rate of approximately 14.5% and a fully diluted share count of approximately 164 million shares. Finally, full year capex is anticipated to be approximately 16% of revenue, consistent with our prior guidance. We are very pleased to deliver another quarter of excellent financial results, and we look forward to closing out a strong 2021. Thank you.
Tom and I would be happy to take your questions. Operator?
