
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to Caesars Entertainment, Inc. 2021 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions].I would now like to turn the call over to your moderator today, Brian Agnew, Senior Vice President of Finance, Treasury, and Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.Brian Agnew -- Senior Vice President of Finance, Treasury, and Investor Relations

 



Thank you, Ren, and good afternoon to everyone on the call. Welcome to our conference call to discuss our third quarter 2021 earnings. This afternoon, we issued a press release announcing our financial results for the period ended September 30, 2021. A copy of the press release is available on the investor relations section of our website at investor.caesars.com.As usual, joining me on the call today are Tom Reeg, our Chief Executive Officer, Anthony Carano, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Bret Yunker, our Chief Financial Officer. Before I turn the call over to Anthony, I would like to remind you that during today's conference call, we may make certain forward-looking statements about the Company's performance.Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and therefore, one should not place undue reliance on them. Forward-looking statements are also subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in our forward-looking statements, you should refer to the cautionary statements contained in our press release, as well as the risk factors contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Caesars Entertainment undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after today's call. Also during today's call, the Company may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Regulation G. The GAAP financial measures most directly comparable to each non-GAAP financial measure discussed and the reconciliation of the differences between each non-GAAP financial measure and the comparable GAAP financial measure can be found on the Company's website at investor.caesars.com by selecting the press release regarding the Company's 2021 third quarter financial results.

 



I will now turn the call over to Anthony.Anthony Carano -- President and Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Brian, and good afternoon to everyone on the call. The third quarter of '21 was another strong quarter. We delivered $1.4 billion of adjusted EBITDA on the quarter, excluding Caesars Digital, which represented a quarterly record for our Brick and Mortar properties. 31 of our 51 properties set a record for the highest third quarter EBITDA, while 32 set a record for the highest Q3 EBITDA margin. Starting with Las Vegas, demand trends remained exceptionally strong through the quarter, leading to an all-time quarterly record of 500 million in adjusted EBITDA in our Las Vegas segment. Excluding Rio rent payments, EBITDA improved 44% versus the third quarter of 2019, and margins improved 1400 basis points to 50%.Total occupancy for Q3 was 89%, with weekend occupancy at 97% and mid-week occupancy 86%. Looking ahead, we remain encouraged by booking trends into 2022 and beyond. While group attrition remains higher than normal, we began to see conventions returned to Las Vegas in the third quarter, and the segment represented approximately 10% of occupied room nights, a dramatic improvement versus the first half of 2021. We continue to expect to see a gradual recovery in the segment leading into next year, and we are encouraged as group and convention revenues on the books for '22 continue to pace nicely ahead of '19.

 



Demand for CAESARS FORUM is exceeding the original underwriting expectations with over 175 events booked currently, representing 1.8 million room nights and over $650 million of revenues for all future periods. 76% of this business is new to Caesars. Turning to our regional markets, operating results remained strong especially in markets not impacted by severe natural disaster events. Adjusted EBITDA, excluding New Orleans, Lake Tahoe, and Lake Charles, increased 35% versus 2019. With margins improving by 860 bits to 38%.On a same-store sales basis, we achieved the highest third quarter EBITDA and EBITDA margin in the regional segment in the history of the Company. In our Caesars Digital segment, we generated over 3 billion of volume, 96 million of net revenue and an adjusted EBITDA loss of a 164 million. Sports betting and iCasino handle a split roughly 55%/45%. 90% of our handle was from mobile sports betting and iCasino. We're laser-focused on scaling our digital business through aggressive customer acquisition during our first fall sports season, post-launch of our seasons branded apps in nine states.While customer acquisition and handle exceeded our internal expectations, net revenues were negatively impacted by directed promotional investment in odds and profit boost, competitive pricing strategies, and lower than historical hold in certain markets. We are pleased that our sports betting handle share in the eight states operating on Liberty platform has increased to 12% through September. Arizona has not reported and therefore not included in these stats. Our national market share through September, including all legalized sports betting states, sits at 17%.Following the exciting launch of retail sports betting in Louisiana on Sunday, we now offer sports betting in 20 jurisdictions, 14 of which are mobile. Importantly, we expect to complete the migration of our legacy up to Washington, D.C., Nevada, Pennsylvania, and Illinois to our Liberty platform in 2022. We're also excited to be rolling out enhanced iCasino offerings in the fourth quarter, following anticipated regulatory approvals related to the release of new gains in New Jersey, Michigan, and West Virginia. Our expanded game portfolio will be accompanied by significant improvements to our in-app merging technologies.On the development front, we are making great progress on our new land-based facility in Lake Charles. This significantly upgraded property should be completed and ready for business in the fourth quarter of '22. In New Orleans, construction work has started on our new hotel tower and property upgrades. In Las Vegas, the remodeling of the entries to Caesars Palace is making great progress, and we look forward to a dramatically improved arrival experience some time in Q1 of '22.In Indiana, we are well underway with our casino expansion at Indiana Grand, which should be finished by January of '22. And finally, in Atlantic City, our $400 million capital plan is actively moving forward with remodeling room towers and setting the stage for exciting new food and beverage, and entertainment options. As we look to 2022, we see several tailwinds in our business, and we remain optimistic about further visitation gains as consumers returned to our property once COVID fears have fully subsided. We remain confident in the eventual return the convention customer to Las Vegas and our destination markets.Lastly, we are excited to rebrand a handful of our properties in 2022, using flagship brands from the Caesars portfolio to even further elevate the customer experience. I am extremely proud of our operating teams, their execution and exceptional guest service during the third quarter.With that, I will now turn the call over to Tom for some additional insights on the quarter.Tom Reeg -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Anthony. Good afternoon, everybody. We pre -released for our bond deal in -- earlier in the quarter, so you had two months of brick-and-mortar operations, effectively, so I am going to be lighter on comments on brick-and-mortar and go a little deeper into digital. On the brick-and-mortar side, it either didn't hit New Orleans and we didn't have the caldor fire in Tahoe. We had had done a billion one of brick-and-mortar EBITDA in the quarter.We had an extremely strong quarter. Demand remains particularly robust. In regards to New Orleans and Tahoe, Tahoe has pretty quickly recovered back to above 2019 levels. Not quite as strong as it was pre -fire, but continuing to build. And New Orleans, recall that we have significant operating leverage there that works in both directions. You've got a minimum guaranteed tax payment to the state and the city in Louisiana. So New Orleans EBITDA continues to trail '19, although it is continuing to recover as well. Going into the storm we were doing $11 million, $12 million a month in EBITDA at New Orleans, and now we're more like five or six in building.Vegas had a record quarter, beating the record of the second quarter. So $424 went to $500 of EBITDA, $511 adding back the real ramp payment. As Anthony said, we were 50% margin again, that was in spite of us imposing occupancy caps mid-week, so that we could calibrate supply with our housekeeping services. We are struggling across the country to hire guest room attendants, Vegas is no exception. So even with the operating caps, we set a quarterly EBITDA record. In October, Vegas had the strongest EBITDA month in the history of Caesars. So the strength has continued into October regionals as well. We're still pacing up in the neighborhood of 40% over '19. So feel very good about the setup going into '22.Customer demand remains strong. Obviously, the virus numbers have subsided considerably over the past six weeks to eight weeks, and we're seeing some pickup in demand as that rolls through. For digital, I spoke to digital in the second quarter call in terms of what you should expect from us. We are anticipating investing in the terms of a cumulative EBITDA losses north of a billion dollars into the digital segment, and generating cash-on-cash EBITDA returns at maturity north of 50%. And what we saw in terms of opportunity for us was the ability to activate our 50 plus properties, our 50,000 plus employees, and most importantly, our $65 million strong Caesars Rewards database, and that's what we set out to do.As I go through these numbers, I'm going to talk about how I look at this business in terms of measuring what we're doing versus expectations. I would -- even though we're extremely encouraged that the numbers that I'm going to be talking about are ahead of our internal expectations as we launch this, it's very early and this is a long game, so we expect it to not be a straight line. What we anticipated was in states where we offered our Liberty technology, where we were starting on equal footing, and where we had existing strong database, that those would be our most effective markets.And that describes Arizona to a T, which launched during the quarter, has not published results yet, but we think that the results will show us in excess of the handle numbers -- percentage numbers that Anthony described earlier. In the Liberty states in total, and I'm looking at handle because in the current customer acquisition environment, hold is volatile, not just because of the results of the sporting events, but because of the boost in the promotions that you offer. So I'm -- when I talk about share, I'm talking about handle share.So in our Liberty states, handle share has almost doubled since launch. That's in the 6s to about 12% mobile market share. That's without Arizona. As I said, I'd expect that to exceed the average and bring it higher. Arizona is our second -- our third strongest state behind Nevada and Iowa where we have incumbent advantages and that reflects exactly what we expected.States where we launched but we were late to the game but did have Liberty, we're seeing continuing -- continued build in market share on the order of the two to 500 basis points depending on the market since we launched. Importantly, if you're looking at analysis that looks at market share across the entire U.S. market, realize that we are not competing, for the time being, in Pennsylvania and Illinois which are two of the biggest markets out there.When we launched, the Liberty platform was not approved in either state. It will be approved in the first half of 2022 is our expectation, but we didn't want to spend money guiding customers to an experience that would not be what we wanted to offer them. And so you see our share in those markets sucks, for lack of better term. If you look at where our customers are coming from. When you're spending like we're spending on advertising and promotion, you're going to get lots and lots of customers that show up at your door. A lot of them are not going to be worth a lot of value. If you look at our customer by count, Caesars Rewards customers are somewhere around 1/3 of our total new deposits since we relaunched.By handle, Caesars Rewards customers are about half of our handle since relaunch. So validating that we think Caesars built a system over two decades that identified the valuable customers that everyone is out there searching for, we're seeing that in our experience and that's extremely encouraging as we look to the future. The performance in the Arizona also encouraging as we look to states like Louisiana, which just launched retail on Sunday, will launch mobile in the near future. Maryland will come online soon as well.These are states where we are in a similar position to where we were in Arizona, so we'd expect to perform well. When we show -- when we give you our 17% total market share, that's everything. That's the states we're not doing well in like Pennsylvania and Illinois, that are not Liberty states, but also includes Nevada, which is not a Liberty state but where we have tremendous market share. We're not adding fantasy numbers in there, we're not adding a horse racing business in there, we're showing you pure sports betting handle. And if you think about what we're doing -- what we did in sports in the quarter, our handle for the third quarter was a little under $1.7 billion -- I'm sorry, a little over $1.7 billion for the full quarter.In October alone, we did over $1.3 billion of handle. So we think we're continuing to generate momentum. And when I talked about the return on investment, obviously we had a model that showed where we expect it to get in market share and the pace at which we expect it to get there. So you can see from EBITDA loss that it's relatively in line with what we were telling people to expect.But our ramp in market share has exceeded our expectations in terms of its pace. Now, the question to that is, does that mean there's a broader market -- a bigger market share number down the road? And the candid answer is we don't know right now, but what we do know is we are gaining share at a pace stronger than we expected given the investment that we've made. So encouraging results from sports.In iCasino, if you want to -- if you want to think about somewhere where we have tracked a little bit below plan, we inherited a platform in iCasino that was non-competitive from a game-offering standpoint. And so again, we've not spent money advertising and promoting our iCasino business until we get the approvals we need to offer a broader array of games that's competitive with our peers that are out there. We expect that will take place before the end of this year. And so then we can talk with more relevance as to what's happening in iCasino.We continue to perform strongly in New Jersey and iCasino, but we have not pushed our launch in iCasino beyond New Jersey today. So in summary, we're extremely encouraged bulk brick-and-mortar, and one thing I should say about wrapping this digital business into the physical enterprise, the employees that have leaned, just done an outstanding job of leaning into this launch for us. And Caesars Rewards, activating the database, this is not something where you just flip a switch. This is going to continue to build momentum as the quarters pile up. We -- I think we've done a good job of getting our message out there, getting our brand out there, and we're encouraged to see the customers respond.And with that, I'll flip to Bret.Bret Yunker -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Tom. We had an active third quarter of M&A and Capital markets activity. On September 9th, we announced an agreement to sell the non-U.S. assets of William Hill to 888 Holdings for PS2.2 billion. Following repayment of debt, we will receive net proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion. We expect this transaction will close during the first quarter of 2022.On September 10th, we priced $1.2 billion of new unsecured notes at a 4% and 5%, 8% coupon. And we repriced $1.8 billion of CRC Term Loan B at Libor plus 350, a decrease of a 100 bps. Proceeds from the new notes alongside $500 million of cash on hand were used to fully retire $1.7 billion of existing CRC notes. In late September and October, we continued to use excess cash on hand to permanently repay debt through a $100 million of open market purchases of our existing Aggregate year-to-date debt reduction is approaching $1 billion, which has resulted in approximately $75 million of annualized interest expense savings.Net proceeds from the sale of William Hill's non-U.S. business will be applied to debt reduction in the first half of 2022, yielding further interest expense savings and enhance free cash flow. Our 2021 calendar year capex spend, excluding Atlantic City, is now $350 million to $400 million, which includes approximately $75 million for Caesars Digital. This is simply a shift in timing of planned capex from 2021 to 2022, driven in part by the hurricane that impacted our New Orleans expansion and COVID-related supply shortages.With that, I'll turn back to Tom.Tom Reeg -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Bret. And to talk a little bit about '22, when we closed the Caesars transaction, obviously, we closed into an uncertain environment with a highly leveraged capital structure, and we needed to bridge to the point where we'd be generating a lot of free cash flow to pay down that debt. You heard Bret talked about the beginnings of that in '21. '22 is going to be a massive cash flow generation -- cash generation and deployment year for the Company.As Bret said, we've got the William Hill asset sale settling between the William Hill non-U.S. business, The Neo games sale, we've got about a $1.5 billion of proceeds to deploy, the bulk of which will be coming in '22. We're generating in the brick-and-mortar business something in the neighborhood of $2 billion a year of free cash flow right now. And so if you're looking from now till -- from end of third quarter to end of '22, you're well over $2 billion of cash there. We also think this is an opportune time to execute on our strategy of a strip asset sale. So you should expect us to put that in motion in the early part of '22.And if you look at all of -- and as Bret said, you should expect it to be aggressive on the refinancing front in 2022 as well, which should dramatically lower our cost of debt. And so if you add all of those up, we should have well in excess of $5 billion of cash to deploy in 2022. Some of that will be spent in the digital business. Some of that will be spent on capital projects that drive ROI in the portfolio.But the vast majority of that cash is going to go to pay down debt, where we can be in a position to be pushing almost half of our conventional debt off the Balance sheet and ultimately reducing our cash interest expense by the end of '22 to $300 million or $400 million a year less than it was when we closed the transaction. So we are extraordinarily excited for what's to come in '22, very happy with the results that we're reporting to you today, and happy to answer any questions that you have.Operator, can we open the line for questions?