
OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to the Equinix Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Katrina Rymill, Vice President of Investor Relations and Sustainability. You may begin.Katrina Rymill -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon, and welcome to today's conference call. Before we get started, I'd like to remind everyone that some of the statements that we're making today are forward-looking in nature and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may vary significantly from those statements and may be affected by the risks we identified in today's press release and those identified in our filings with the SEC, including our most recent Form 10-K filed on February 19, 2021, and 10-Q filed on July 30, 2021.Equinix assumes no obligation and does not intend to update or comment on forward-looking statements made on this call. In addition, in light of regulation for our disclosure, is Iconic's policy not to comment on its financial guidance during the quarter unless it is done through an explicit public disclosure. In addition, we will provide non-GAAP measures on today's conference call. We provide a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and a list of the reasons why the company uses these measures in today's press release of the Equinix IR page at www.equinix.com. We have made available on the IR page of our website a presentation designed to accompany this discussion, along with certain supplemental financial information and other data.We would also like to remind you that we post important information about Equinix in the IR page from time to time and encourage you to check our website regularly for the most current available information. With us today are Charles Meyers, Equinix' CEO and President; and Keith Taylor, Chief Financial Officer. Following our prepared remarks, we'll be taking questions from sell-side analysts. In the interest of wrapping this call up in an hour, we'd like to ask these analysts to limit any following questions to just one.At this time, I'll turn the call over to Charles.

 



Charles Meyers -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Kat. Good afternoon, everybody, and welcome to our third quarter earnings call. We had a great quarter achieving our 75th consecutive quarter of top line revenue growth and a record Q3 on bookings, a clear signal of strong market demand. Our results were fueled by continued strength in our Americas business and robust performance for our channel program globally as key partners continue to see Platform Equinix as a point of nexus for digital transformation solutions. The pandemic has triggered an accelerated need to digitize business models in virtually every segment of the economy, and our strong results reflect this increasing demand for digital infrastructure.And Equinix remains uniquely positioned to help customers as they shift toward distributed, hybrid and multicloud as a clear architecture of choice. As we continue to strengthen our position as the world digital infrastructure company, our focus remains on creating distinctive and durable value for our customers and our shareholders, driving growth and scale in our market leading colocation franchise, expanding our relevance to the cloud ecosystem through xScale and tapping into massive sources of incremental demand by adapting to evolving customer needs with a rapidly growing digital services business.Turning to our results. As depicted on Slide 3, revenues for Q3 were $1.7 million, up 8% year-over-year. Adjusted EBITDA was up 4% year-over-year, and AFFO was in line with our expectations. Interconnection revenues continue to outpace colocation revenues growing 11% year-over-year driven by solid physical cross-connect growth and broad adoption of Equinix Fabric. These growth rates are all on a normalized and constant currency basis. We processed more than 4,200 deals in the quarter across more than 3,100 customers, highlighting the reach, scale and predictability of our booking digit.

 



We have a solid demand pipeline as we look to the final quarter of the year, and we continue to add capacity to service this demand with 11 major projects delivered this quarter in key markets like Frankfurt, New York and Singapore and 31 more major projects underway across 23 markets in 16 countries. Our global interconnection franchise continues to thrive with over 414,000 total interconnection on our industry-leading platform. In Q3, we added an incremental 7,800 interconnections now have at least one major cloud on-ramp in 42 metros around the world, 2 times more than the nearest competitor, a clear indication that Equinix is the home of the interconnected cloud.Internet exchange saw peak traffic up 6% quarter-over-quarter and 30% year-over-year to over 21 terabits per second as traffic growth remains robust. Equinix Fabric saw excellent growth, continuing to significantly overindexed within the broader interconnection portfolio. More than 2,800 customers are now on Fabric with attach rates moving up into the right as businesses diversify their end destinations and service providers integrate Fabric into their own solutions. In September, we extended Platform Equinix into our 27th country with the close of our GPX acquisition, entering the strategic Indian market.Our two data centers in Mumbai for a network that is campus with more than 350 international and local companies, including six on-ramps to the world's leading cloud service providers and a robust network ecosystem. GPX represents an ideal entry point into this top 10 GDP country, and we expect to expand our operations significantly in India over the coming years as we tap into this rapidly growing market. In parallel with our tremendous retail success, we continue to expand our xScale basis. In October, we announced plans to expand in Australia with an agreement to establish a $575 million joint venture with PGIM Real Estate to develop two data centers in Sydney, which will provide more than 55 megawatts of capacity when fully built.Also, during the quarter, we closed the first phase of our previously announced EMEA two joint venture with GIC and signed two megawatts with a hyperscaler in Frankfurt. We currently have eight x-scale builds under development, including our newly announced Matrade 3, Mexico C3 and Sidney nine assets. which will collectively add 25 megawatts of capacity when they opened in the first half of 2022. The total investment of our various hyperscale joint ventures when closed and fully built out is now expected to be more than $7.5 billion across 34 facilities globally with more than 675 megawatts of power capacity. Turning to our digital infrastructure services.Our Equinix Metal business saw strong revenue growth in cloud native and service provider customers continue to embrace the ability to deploy physical infrastructure at software speed. And Network Edge saw robust growth as established customers purchase more virtual network functions across additional metrics. By year-end, we expect Network Edge to be available in 25 metros around the world. So now let me cover highlights from our verticals. Our network vertical continues to be a foundation for the business with strength in the quarter in cable and satellite subsegments and continued momentum in joint go-to-market with our top network partners across the globe.Expansions this quarter included Zayo Group, a global communications infrastructure company, adding interconnection and colocation capacity to support demand; Vocus, Australia's leading specialist fiber and network solutions provider, building infrastructure in both Sydney and Melbourne to offer network services; and Hurricane Electric, a global network service provider utilizing Equinix Fabric to allow enterprise customers to access their IP transit product at scale and in real time. Our enterprise vertical saw another strong quarter led by manufacturing and fintech and record channel activity.New wins and expansions included a Fortune 100 manufacturing company, deploying global network hubs to enable their SaaS analytics offering; a leading technology manufacturer deploying a custom liquid-cooled environment and solution center to support the next generation of high-performance compute; and a Fortune 250 online retailer and e-commerce platform deploying across Platform Equinix with low latency, cloud-adjacent network hubs to support their retail branded sites. Our cloud and IT vertical saw a particular strength in the Americas as industry-specific cloud solutions continue to be a catalyst for innovation and new growth.Expansions this quarter included Adobe, a leading cloud software provider deploying infrastructure to support its platforms and optimize sustainable participation in key digital markets and ecosystems; Wasabi, a U.S.-based object storage company, expanding their offering on Equinix Fabric into APAC and EMEA, enabling customers to easily connect their bare metal workloads posted on Equinix Bell; and a top five global software provider deploying core metals to support their growing user base and demand in both Mexico City and Sao Paulo.Content and digital media had a great opening this quarter with resurgence in this vertical being led by APAC and broad-based strength in the gaming and streaming subsegments as consumer demand for at-home digital services remains strong. Expansions this quarter included Netflix, a global streaming service expanding cross-platform Equinix in new and existing markets to support OTT delivery; Kingsoft, a Chinese cloud provider expanding into [Indecipherable] to support rapid sales growth; and a top three content distributor extending coverage and scale for its growing platform and the delivery of new and existing security solutions.And our channel program continues to shine, delivering another robust quarter. This important go-to-market [ocean] accounted for over 35% of total bookings, nearly half of our enterprise bookings and more than 60% of our new logos in the quarter. We are benefiting from tremendous momentum in hybrid cloud adoption and seeing particular strength on the joint enterprise pursuit with our key alliance partners such as AT&T, AWS, Dell, HPE and Microsoft. Wins were across a wide range of industry verticals and included a marquee win with NVIDIA, IBM and SBA or Continental Group, a worldwide automotive parts supplier building an interconnected global network to optimize workloads and speed up AI training for their advanced driver assistance systems.So now let me turn the call over to Keith and cover the results for the quarter.Keith D. Taylor -- Chief Financial OfficerGreat. Thanks, Charles, and good afternoon to all. Well, let me start by saying the Equinix business continues to hum. And once again, we met our expectations or better. We had a very solid quarter. The macro environment for digital infrastructure continues to drive expanding market opportunities as demonstrated by another outstanding bookings quarter both at the gross and the net level from our industry-leading go-to-market engine. Our bookings backlog remains both significant and elevated as we work to install the substantial volume of business closed through the past few quarters, and our forward-looking pipeline is extremely healthy in all of our regions.Our channel sales activity was the best in our history, and our global platform delivered healthy inter- and intra-region activity. We had firm MRR per cabinet yields with yet again net positive pricing actions, a validation of a differentiated operating model compared to others in our space. On a year-to-date basis, our global design and construction and ops teams have delivered more than 18,000 cabinets of retail capacity and 40 megawatts of xScale inventory while also rolling out critical network infrastructure assets across our targeted markets in support of our Fabric, Network Edge and metal service offerings.We've seen no major delays to date in delivering new capacity despite general market concerns related to supply chain challenges, a reflection of the efforts put forth by our best-in-class procurement and strategic sourcing teams. Now let me cover the results for the quarter. Note that all growth rates in this section are on a normalized and constant currency basis. As depicted on Slide 4, global Q3 revenues were $1.675 billion, up 8% over the same quarter last year due to strong business performance across our platform led by the Americas region.Nonrecurring revenues represented about 7% of revenues due to an increase in custom installation work and EMEA xScale joint venture fees. For Q4, we expect NRR to trend downward decreasing sequentially by approximately $12 million due to lower xScale fees and the timing of large customer installations. Q3 revenues, net of our FX hedges, included a $6 million headwind when compared to our prior guidance rates. Global Q3 adjusted EBITDA was $786 million or 47% of revenues, at the high end of our guidance expectations due to timing of spend and low integration costs. Q3 adjusted EBITDA, net of our FX hedges, included a $3 million headwind when compared to our prior guidance rates $3 million of integration costs.Total Q3 AFFO was $628 million, the result of strong operating performance consistent with our expectations. Similar to prior years, we expect seasonally higher levels of recurring capex in Q4 as our operating teams work to complete the 2021 projects. Global Q3 MRR churn was 2.1%. We continue to expect MRR churn for the full year to be at the lower end of our target quarterly range of 2% to 2.5%. Turning to our regional highlights, whose full results are covered on Slides five through 7. The APAC region's revenue grew 11% year-over-year, followed by the Americas at 7% and EMEA at 6%. As previously discussed, we expect the EMEA growth rate to return to normalized levels in Q4 as we lap interconnection price increases and the other one-off positive adjustments from last year.The Americas region saw continued strength with our third consecutive quarter of record bookings with a broad distribution across metros, including some of our smaller markets, such as Boston, Denver, Mexico City, Seattle and Toronto. The Americas sales teams continue to sell the global platform with a notable increase in activity coming from our Canadian team and benefit derived from the transaction with Bell Canada, which is outperforming our expectations. Our EMEA region had a solid quarter with strength coming from our Amsterdam, Frankfurt and Madrid markets as enterprise customers and the channel drive bookings.And as we aim to meet high sustainability and efficiency standards while progressing toward our 2030 science-based targets, new builds like our recently opened Fabric ABX serve as a model to land in the cityscape of positively contributing to the local micro climate. And finally, the Asia Pacific region had a solid quarter with momentum across all of our metros led by Singapore. New deal activity focused on small- to medium-sized deployments with firm pricing and continued strength in our cross-border selling. Our Hong Kong market saw a nice rebound in bookings performance, although it continues to feel constrained given the market uncertainty.And now looking at our capital structure, please refer to Slide 8. We ended the quarter with cash of about $1.4 billion, and our net debt leverage ratio remains low, particularly relative to our industry peers. Our balance sheet remains highly flexible and liquid, and we have a low AFFO cash payout ratio. With regards to our outstanding debt, we have minimal near-term exposure to potentially rising interest rates with 95% of our debt fixed and a weighted average maturity of over nine years. Turning to Slide nine for the quarter. Capital expenditures were approximately $678 million, including recurring capex of $48 million.We opened 11 new projects this quarter, including new IBXs in Frankfurt, Osaka and Singapore have purchased land for development in Barcelona, Frankfurt and Helsinki. On the xScale side of the business, we opened our Sao Paulo five and Frankfurt nine assets. We also closed the first phase of our EMEA two joint venture with GIC for net cash proceeds at our 20% equity contribution of approximately $140 million, including $34 million coming from the contribution of our Safala five asset into the joint venture after quarter end. On a separate note, we continue to actively manage our partners and suppliers and have built up an appropriate inventory of part components as we hedge against supply chain challenges in support of our business needs.Finally, total recurring revenues from owned assets stepped up to 59% due to the acquisition of our Citi One and CD2IBXs. Our capital investments delivered strong returns as shown on Slide 10. Our 153 stabilized assets increased recurring revenue by 3% year-over-year on a constant currency basis. These stabilized assets are collectively 86% utilized and generated 27% cash-on-cash return on the group PPD invested. We expect to exit the year closer to the top end of our stabilized asset growth range, in part due to strong Americas revenue growth. Now please refer to Slides 11 through 15 for our updated summary of 2021 guidance and bridges.Do note, our guidance now includes the anticipated results from the GPX India acquisition, which closed in September. For the full year 2021, we expect revenues to grow approximately 8% on a normalized and constant currency basis. Our updated revenue guidance implies our largest ever quarterly step-up in recurring revenues on a normalized basis, a reflection of our continued strong execution. Revenues include about $5 million from the GPX acquisition and reflect updated FX rates. We expect 2021 adjusted EBITDA margin before integration costs to be greater than 47% and now include about $3 million from the GPX acquisition and reflect updated FX rates.We expect to spend $18 million of integration costs in 2021, and we expect 2021 AFFO to grow 10% to 11% on a normalized and constant currency basis compared to the prior year and to deliver AFFO per share growth of 9% to 10%. Our AFFO guidance includes some AFFO impacting accelerated spend, including recurring capex and elevated cash commissions associated with our strong bookings performance. 2021 capex is expected to range between $2.7 billion and $3 billion, including about $450 million of on-balance sheet xScale capex, a significant portion of which has been or will be reimbursed by the JVs, and $193 million of recurring capex spend at the midpoint.So let me stop here and turn the call back to Charles.Charles Meyers -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Keith. Our business continues to perform exceptionally well, delivering strong and consistent results throughout these changing times. The pandemic has been a driving force for digital transformation. And as businesses seek to respond to this imperative, the infrastructure underpinning these services must keep pace. We continue to prosecute multiple compelling growth factors: expanding our platform geographically, scaling our go-to-market engine to capture new customers and bringing new services to bear that will expand our addressable market. We are evolving the way we design, create and deliver our products and services to fuel our growth and meet the changing needs of our customers. To that end, I'd also like to welcome Ron Guerrier to our Board of Directors.As a veteran CIO to Fortune 500 corporations and government, Ron brings a unique perspective to the Equinix Board as we continue to innovate our digital infrastructure offerings for the digital leaders of today and tomorrow. I'd like to close by expressing my gratitude to our more than 10,000 employees whose commitment to keep our customers at the center of everything we do, continues to drive our market leadership. They embody our commitment to show up every day with an in-service to mindset, starting by meeting in service to each other, which in turn allows us to be in service to our customers, to our communities and to you, our shareholders.So let me stop there and open it up for questions.