
OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to the Moody's Corporation First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the conference over to Shivani Kak, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Shivani Kak -- Head of Investor Relations

 



Thank you. Good morning, and thank you for joining us to discuss Moody's first quarter 2021 results and our revised outlook for full year 2021. I'm Shivani Kak, Head of Investor Relations. This morning, Moody's released its results for the first quarter of 2021 as well as our outlook for full year 2021. The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com. Rob Fauber, Moody's President and Chief Executive Officer, will lead this morning's conference call. Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Mark Kaye, Moody's Chief Financial Officer. During this call, we will also be presenting non-GAAP or adjusted figures. Please refer to the tables at the end of our earnings press release filed this morning for a reconciliation between all adjusted measures referenced during this call and GAAP. I call your attention to the safe harbor language, which can be found toward the end of our earnings release.Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In accordance with the Act, I also direct your attention to the Management's Discussion and Analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, and in other SEC filings made by the company, which are available on our website and on the SEC's website. These, together with the safe harbor statement, set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements. I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.I will now turn the call over to Rob Fauber.Robert Fauber -- President And Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Shivani. Good morning, everybody, and thanks for joining today's call. I'm going to begin by providing a general update on the business, including Moody's first quarter 2021 financial results. And following my commentary, Mark Kaye will provide some further details on our first quarter 2021 performance as well as our revised 2021 outlook. And after our prepared remarks, we'll be happy to take any questions. Moody's delivered strong financial results in the first quarter of 2021, revenue growth of 24% and an increase in adjusted diluted EPS of 49%, supported by strong performance from both Moody's Investor Service and Moody's Analytics. Improving economic fundamentals and increased M&A activity drove robust issuance in the first quarter, particularly in the leveraged loan and high-yield bond markets.MIS generated over $1 billion in revenue, and that was up 30% over the prior year period. MA's best-in-class subscription-based products and solutions drove revenue growth of 14% in the quarter. And amid this growth, we're reinvesting back into our business by introducing new offerings and integrating our recent acquisitions. As a result of our strong performance in the quarter, we've updated our full year 2021 guidance, and we now project Moody's revenue to increase in the high single-digit percent range. Additionally, we've raised and narrowed our adjusted diluted EPS guidance to be in the range of $11 to $11.30. Now turning to first quarter results. This is the first time that MIS' revenue has exceeded $1 billion in a single quarter, while MA has delivered its 53rd consecutive quarter of growth. Moody's adjusted operating income rose 41% to $914 million, and the adjusted operating margin expanded 680 basis points to 57.1%. Adjusted diluted EPS was $4.06, again, up 49%. Now we could not have accomplished these great results without the hard work and dedication of our employees across the world.So on behalf of the entire management team, I'd like to express our appreciation and say thank you. I would also like to acknowledge the continued challenges faced by many of our employees across the globe due to ongoing pandemic conditions and especially our colleagues in India. Now turning back to the first quarter. Issuance volumes reached their highest level in over a decade. While all sectors were active, leveraged finance was really the busiest of all asset classes with leveraged loans and high-yield bond issuance increasing by 94% and 85%, respectively. Now typically, it's unusual for both leveraged loans and high-yield bonds to experience this amount of growth in the same quarter. Issuers tend to favor one type of debt type over the other depending on their outlook, but attractive refinancing opportunities as well as improving M&A activity supported both fixed and floating rate issuance this quarter. And additionally, the CLO market rebounded from a quiet 2020 as issuers refinanced their existing securitizations to take advantage of tighter spreads.Now the strength in the leveraged finance issuance in the first quarter stemmed primarily from an improving outlook for corporate defaults. In January, the global speculative-grade default rate was expected to end the year at just under 5%. And by early April, this outlook had improved to approximately 3% to 4%. That was due to a more positive economic backdrop. And these lower default expectations led to tighter credit spreads and keeping the overall cost of borrowing low despite an increase in benchmark rates, and this created an attractive environment for opportunistic refinancing and M&A-driven issuance. We're often asked about what informs our longer-term views of issuance. And we've shown a version of this graph on the slide before. In fact, I think I showed it at our 2018 Investor Day. And as you can see, the data shows that historically, GDP is one of the best predictive indicators of issuance over the longer term. While this relationship may not hold in any one year, there is a clear correlation that issuance tracks GDP growth over time, and we expect this to remain true going forward.

 



Now that makes intuitive sense as healthy economies promote business growth and capital investment and also provides a positive backdrop for our business over the medium term. Focusing on 2021, we still expect overall issuance to decline, albeit modestly from 2020's pandemic-related surge, and it will still be above the prior five-year average. Investment-grade issuance, which grew the most in 2020, is expected to face the toughest comparable. However, with GDP expanding, segments of the debt market most sensitive to improvements in the economy, like leveraged loans and structured finance, are expected to show corresponding strength. And Mark will provide some further details on our issuance forecast by asset class later in the call. Now moving to MA. We're driving robust organic growth across multiple products and solutions. Credit research and data feeds delivered low double-digit growth, driven by continued demand for ratings data feeds, coupled with strong retention rates. KYC and compliance is growing in line with our mid-20% expectations, and that's led by our Compliance Catalyst and supply chain solutions. And we're continuing to grow in insurance and asset management.In addition to our IFRS 17 offerings, we're expanding our footprint with the buy-side, benefiting from the enhanced solution suite that we obtained as part of our RiskFirst acquisition in 2019. In keeping with the theme of collaborating and modernizing and innovating that I discussed on the fourth quarter earnings call, I want to highlight a few recent examples that speak to how we're meeting our customers' evolving needs, starting with ESG and climate. We're integrating ESG across all aspects of the business. In the first quarter, we launched a tool that provides climate-adjusted credit scores for approximately 37,000 public companies. In addition, building on our partnership with Euronext, our data powered the launch of their CAC 40 ESG Index. In MIS, our analysts are enhancing our ESG analysis with the launch of ESG scores and tools, and that includes our proprietary ESG credit impact score that identifies the impact of ESG factors on a credit rating. And our first batch of scores now cover the entire rated sovereign universe. On prior earnings calls, we've discussed how we're integrating artificial intelligence and machine learning and natural language processing into our products to make them better and faster.One example is QUIQspread. It's our automated financial spreading tool that's now used by scores of banks around the globe. This tool has helped customers substantially reduce both the time and cost spent spreading financial statements. And it's won multiple awards, including Best AI Technology Initiative at the 2020 American Financial Technology Awards. Another area where we're using innovative technology is sentiment analysis and scoring capabilities. Our customers tell us they need our help with early warning indicators that filter the signal from the noise. We're delivering monitoring tools to analyze new stories to understand sentiment across thousands of media outlets, and we're seeing increased interest in this use case across our customer base. Our acquisition of Acquire Media has further enhanced our efforts in this space, and we'll touch on that more in a moment. In addition to innovating for our customers, we're modernizing our own technology infrastructure to deliver greater operational efficiency and agility.Just last week, we were proud to be recognized with an honorable mention in the Red Hat Innovation Awards for the open source platform and agile process that we implemented within the rating agency. Now turning to our recent acquisitions. We're making some good progress integrating and leveraging the capabilities that we acquired to enhance our offerings. For example, we integrated information and screening capabilities into our KYC solutions, specifically within our flagship private company database known as Orbis. We're giving customers curated information on individuals and companies in one place and dramatically improving their ability to make better KYC decisions and saving countless hours in the process. And as I mentioned a few moments ago, the Acquire Media acquisition has accelerated our ability to generate scores that interpret the sentiment implied in news stories. We've already integrated the content from Acquire Media into multiple products. That's improving our customers' ability to put facts into context, to focus their monitoring efforts and consider risks in a more holistic way.In commercial real estate, we've combined REIS and Catylist to create Moody's Commercial Real Estate Solutions. We're developing new tools that bring together curated data and world-class analytics to support commercial real estate professionals with more integrated lending and investing solutions which are on track to launch this summer. And finally, we're pairing ZM Financial's asset and liability management solutions and loan pricing tools with MA's existing CECL, capital planning and balance sheet software to help customers understand risks and opportunities across their treasury, accounting and financial planning departments.And with that, I'll now turn the call over to Mark to provide further details on Moody's first quarter results as well as an update on our outlook for 2021.Mark Kaye -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Rob. In the first quarter, MIS achieved noteworthy results as strong execution, robust credit activity and favorable issuance mix contributed to revenue growth of 30% compared to a 23% increase in global MIS rated issuance. Corporate finance was the largest contributor, growing 34%, while issuance grew 37%. This is primarily driven by leveraged finance issuers both opportunistically refinancing debt and funding M&A transactions. In contrast and in line with our expectations, investment-grade activity moderated as compared to the prior year period. The financial institutions and public, project and infrastructure finance lines of business also benefited from strong opportunistic refinancing led by infrequent issuers. Revenues in these sectors grew by approximately 30% year-over-year despite issuance growth in the single-digit percent range. In structured finance, revenue grew 21% as tighter spreads drove elevated CLO refinancing and new CMBS activity. MIS' adjusted operating margin expanded 720 basis points to 67.7%. This is enabled by strong revenue growth, coupled with ongoing cost efficiency initiatives and lower bad debt reserves, partially offset by higher incentive compensation accruals.Moving to MA. First quarter revenue grew 14% or 10% on an organic basis. RD&A's revenue rose 17% or 12% organically as KYC and compliance solutions delivered mid-20% organic growth and customer retention rates remained high. ERS' revenue growth of 5% or 4% on organic basis, led by a 15% increase in recurring revenue, driven by insurance products as well as credit assessment and loan origination solutions. Recurring revenue growth offset the expected decline in onetime revenue as we continue our strategic shift toward more subscription-based products. MA's adjusted operating margin expanded 360 basis points to 32.9%. Strong top line growth and execution of our in-flight restructuring program enabled additional operating leverage in the quarter. As Rob mentioned earlier in the call, Moody's adjusted diluted EPS grew by almost 50% to $4.06 primarily driven by our extraordinary performance in the quarter. Growth in operating income contributed approximately $0.94 to adjusted diluted EPS with $0.85 attributed to MIS. Additionally, nonoperating activities, including the resolution of uncertain tax positions as well as the release of associated accrued interest, provided a $0.28 benefit.Turning to Moody's full year 2021 guidance. Moody's outlook for 2021 is based on assumptions regarding many geopolitical conditions, macroeconomic and capital market factors. These include, but are not limited to, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, responses by governments, regulators, businesses and individuals as well as the effect on interest rates or in the currency exchange rates, capital markets liquidity and activity in different sectors of the debt market. The outlook also reflects assumptions regarding general economic conditions, the company's own operations and personnel and additional items as detailed in the earnings release. Our full year 2021 guidance is underpinned by the following macro assumptions. 2021 U.S. and Euro area GDP will rise to a range of 6% to 7% and 3.5% to 4.5%, respectively. The U.S. unemployment rate will decline to between 5% and 6% by year-end, and benchmark interest rates will remain low with U.S. high-yield spreads remaining below approximately 450 basis points. Finally, the global high-yield default rate is predicted to decline to a range of 3% to 4% by year-end. Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end of quarter exchange rates, specifically our forecast for the remainder of 2021 reflects U.S. exchange rates for the British pound of $1.38 and $1.18 for the euro.These assumptions are subject to uncertainty and results for the year could differ materially from our current outlook. Following our first quarter performance, we are raising our full year 2021 guidance for most metrics as compared to the guidance provided on February 12. We now anticipate that Moody's revenue will increase in the high single-digit percent range. As we strategically manage our expense base, we are maintaining our expectations for cost growth in the mid-single-digit percent range. Given our improved revenue outlook and expense stability, we project Moody's adjusted operating margin to be approximately 50%. Our updated net interest expense guidance is in the range of $160 million to $180 million, and we reaffirm the effective tax rate projection of 20% to 22%. We raised and narrowed our dilutive and adjusted diluted EPS guidance ranges to $10.40 to $10.70 and $11 to $11.30, respectively. Our free cash flow forecast is now expected to be between $2.1 billion and $2.2 billion. And we continue to anticipate full year share repurchases of approximately $1.5 billion, subject to available cash, market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation decisions.For a complete list of our guidance, please refer to Table 12 of our earnings release. Within MIS, we project full year global rated issuance to decline in the low single-digit percent range, up from our previous guidance of a high single-digit percent decline. Our guidance for high-yield bonds and leveraged loans has been raised to approximately flat and up 55%, respectively, as we expect robust issuance in leveraged finance to persist into the second quarter, supported by low borrowing costs and sustained M&A activity. However, we anticipate supply to return to more normalized levels in the second half of 2021 as we believe many issuers will have fulfilled the majority of their funding needs earlier in the year. Full year investment-grade supply is still expected to decrease by approximately 30%, following a very active prior calendar year. We forecast issuance from financial institutions to be approximately flat. We have not factored the proposed U.S. infrastructure bill into our assumptions regarding public, project and infrastructure finance issuance, which we anticipate will decline approximately 15%. Depending on the contents of the final legislation, if it were to pass, it could improve our expectations for the balance of the year. The expected increase in leveraged loan supply positively impacts new CLO creation.As a result, we predict structured finance issuance will increase 40%. In line with the surge in leveraged finance activity in the first quarter, we're increasing our guidance for new mandates in 2021 to be in the range of 800 to 850. We have updated MIS' revenue outlook to reflect stronger-than-anticipated first quarter performance. We now estimate that MIS' revenue will increase in the mid-single-digit percent range, up from our prior guidance of approximately flat. We're also raising MIS' adjusted operating margin guidance to approximately 61%. For MA revenue, we are maintaining our forecast of an increase in the low double-digit percent range. This is due to strong demand for our subscription-based products, stable customer retention rates, favorable foreign exchange rates and a two to three percentage point tailwind from recent acquisitions. MA's adjusted operating margin guidance remains at approximately 30% as we expect underlying margin expansion to be partly tempered by an acceleration in strategic investments in 2021. Since we are maintaining our full year 2021 expense guidance in the mid-single-digit percent range, I would like to provide additional clarity and insight regarding our approach to expense management.In the first quarter, operating expenses rose 7% over the prior year period. Of this reported growth, approximately four percentage points were attributed to recent acquisitions and the unfavorable impact of movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Ongoing expense discipline continues to reinforce our operating leverage. As noted on last quarter's earnings call, by generating upwards of $80 million in cost efficiencies this year, we are able to self-fund our strategic priorities and reinvest back into the business. The majority of these strategic investments will occur in the second half of 2021. Before turning the call back over to Rob, I'd like to highlight a few key takeaways. First, we successfully executed our strategic and business objectives against the backdrop of robust issuance, delivering meaningful results this quarter across both operating segments. Second, we are acutely focused on innovation and integration of new features into our products and solutions to meet our customers' evolving needs.Third, we are maintaining expense discipline through ongoing cost efficiency initiatives, which enable us to both reinvest in our key strategic priorities and expand our operating margins. And finally, we are pleased to revise upward our full year 2021 outlook as we drive operating leverage and create further opportunities for growth.And with that, let me turn the call back over to Rob.Robert Fauber -- President And Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Mark. This concludes our prepared remarks, and Mark and I would be pleased to take your questions. Operator?