
OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Second Quarter 2021 Pentair Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions].I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jim Lucas. Please go ahead.Jim Lucas -- Senior Vice President, Treasurer, FP&A and Investor Relations

 



Thanks, Michelle and welcome to Pentair's second quarter 2021 earnings conference call. We are glad you could join us. I am Jim Lucas, Senior Vice President, Treasurer, FP&A and Investor Relations. With me today is John Stauch, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Bob Fishman, our Chief Financial Officer. On today's call, we will provide details on our second quarter performance, as outlined in this morning's press release.Before we begin, let me remind you that during our presentation today, we will make forward-looking statements. Listeners are cautioned that these statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Pentair. These risks and uncertainties can cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. We advise listeners to carefully review the risk factors in our most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K and today's release. We will also reference certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in the Investor Relations section of Pentair's website.We will be sure to reserve time for questions and answers after our prepared remarks. I would like to request that you limit questions to one and a follow-up in order to ensure everyone an opportunity to ask their questions.I will now turn the call over to John.

 



John Stauch -- President, Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jim and good morning, everyone. Please turn to slide number 4 titled Executive Summary.We were pleased to deliver strong second quarter with sales up over 30%, adjusted EPS growth greater than 40% and free cash flow up over $100 million in the first half of the year. I would like to thank our Pentair teams for helping deliver these results, even in the face of unprecedented material shortages and inflation. Our orders continued to grow and our backlog ended the quarter at record levels. We believe our order trajectory gives us increased confidence not only in our ability to growing the second half but it also gives us comfort that the topline momentum we have built the past several quarters will carry over into next year. Our transformation work is on track and we built a strong pipeline of initiatives across the enterprise.Regarding the current inflationary environment, we have implemented further price increases and we expect the price cost gap to further narrow in the second half. Our cash flow remained robust and our balance sheet is in a very solid position. We have a strong M&A pipeline tied to our strategic growth initiatives and we plan to remain disciplined with our capital allocation. We are introducing third quarter guidance and raising our full year expectations once again, which Bob will give more detail on later in the call. Our forecast reflects our expectations that material shortages and inflation are not going away nor will they improve materially. We believe we have better visibility than we have had in the last few quarters and that our proven focus around manufacturing and sourcing gives us the tools to navigate the current environment. We are encouraged to see our commercial and industrial businesses recovering and our residential businesses remaining seasonally strong and as mentioned earlier, our backlog support continued growth.

 



Please turn to slide 5 labeled Building a Track Record of Consistent Growth. At our June 10th Investor Day, we introduced several targets for 2022 to 2025, including mid-single digit sales growth, 300 basis points margin expansion and 10%-plus CAGR for adjusted EPS. Our 2025 targets were based on our guidance as of June 10, which we are raising once again following our strong second quarter performance. Our longer term target provided at Investor Day would now be based on our revised guidance. We have experienced significant growth since the second half of 2020 and we believe the momentum that we have created will continue into the foreseeable future. We continue to believe that we have a well-positioned portfolio benefiting from many positive secular trends. Our pool business serves a large installed base. Water treatment helps solve water quality issues for residential and commercial customers. And industrial and flow technologies serves some attractive niches like biogas in addition to a large installed base the pumps.While our consumer businesses are seasonal, we do not believe them to be cyclical. While our focus is on driving the core to create consistent value creation, we are investing in a few strategic growth initiatives to accelerate the topline. These include getting closer to the consumer in pool, expanding water treatment further into services and biogas and carbon capture within industrial and flow technologies. As we drive transformation more broadly across the entire enterprise, we expect that this will drive both ROS expansion and help fund growth initiatives. Finally, we believe our balance sheet provides a great degree of flexibility to drive further upside, primarily through M&A tied to our strategic growth initiatives.I would now like to turn the call over to Bob to discuss our performance and our financial results in more detail, after which I will provide an update on our overall strategic position.Bob?Bob Fishman -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you John. Please turn to slide 6 labeled Q2 2021 Pentair Performance.Second quarter sales grew 32% with core sales increasing 28%. Consumer solutions grew core sales nearly 40% and industrial and flow technologies delivered core sales growth of 12% with second consecutive quarter of growth. Segment income was up 40% and return on sales expanded 110 basis points to 18.6%. Adjusted EPS increased 42% to $0.84. Consistent with our guidance, the second quarter did not see price fully offset inflation as we saw higher inflation and we have continued to implement price increases to help offset. The second half should see price cost start to even out, but unprecedented amount of material and wage inflation coupled with robust demand has contributed price reading out at a slower pace.Corporate expense was $26 million in the quarter as we recorded higher levels of compensation expense, given the performance our businesses delivered this year. Our tax rate was 17.4% in the quarter as we now expect the full year tax rate to approximate 16%. This is due primarily to higher levels of North American income as our residential businesses continued to grow at strong double digit levels.Please turn to slide 7 labeled Q2 2021 Consumer Solutions Performance. Consumer solutions sales growth was 44% as both businesses delivered strong double digit growth. Segment income increased 48% and return on sales expanded 80 basis points to 24.9%. Consumer solutions experienced significant inflation during the first half as demand continued to grow. Pool experienced sales growth of 50% in the quarter. While we have seen significant growth two quarters in a row to start the year, we believe pool dealers are doing their best to keep up with robust demand. The theme of consumers investing in their backyards continued. The pool team have significantly increased capacity even in the face of material shortages and inflation.Backlog remains at record levels and orders have more than doubled. Even when the record year, we believe the improvement in orders and strong backlog gives us improved visibility that growth will continue looking ahead for next year. The macro trends continued to be favorable and the installed base of pool continues to grow. Demand for new pools remained strong with many builders reporting backlogs into next year. We believe consumers remain committed to enhancing their at-home quality of life and enjoying the pool is a major part of the experience for many consumers. In addition to new pool construction, aftermarket growth remains strong as consumers have used their pools more.Water treatment delivered 35% sales growth as residential demand remains robust and commercial showed strong signs of post-pandemic recovery. Our residential business grew nearly 20% and our commercial business grew sales by over 40%, excluding the contribution from KBI in the quarter. Overall, we believe consumer solutions is well-positioned to deliver continued double digit growth in the second half based on strong order and backlog trends. We expect price to read out further in the second half and close the gap on the higher inflation experienced in the first half.Please turn to slide 8 labeled Q2 2021 Industrial and Flow Technologies Performance. Industrial and flow technologies increased sales 17% in the quarter and its end-markets further recovered and the business continued to execute its strategy. Segment income increased 30% and return on sales expanded 160 basis points to 15.7%. Residential flow grew at a double digit rate for the third consecutive quarter. Orders continued to exceed sales and we expect the seasonal business to end the year well-positioned within all of its channels. Commercial flow increase sales 11% and further built backlog. The commercial recovery has gained momentum with orders continuing to improve. We expect growth to continue for the smaller part of the segment. Industrial filtration delivered 14% sales growth as the short cycle aftermarket showed further signs of improvement, particularly within food and beverage. We experienced double digit increases in both orders and backlog. Industrial and flow technologies remains focused on reducing complexity, selective growth and margin expansion.Please turn to slide 9 labeled Balance Sheet and Cash Flow. Free cash flow continued to be a great story with over $100 million improvement year-over-year. We generated $340 million of free cash in the first half. We have returned $117 million to shareholders through dividends and buybacks in the first half. We also repaid a $104 million bond that matured during the quarter and paid approximately $80 million to acquire KBI. As we continue to invest our capital wisely, we ended the quarter at just under one times leverage. We are extremely proud and excited to see our return on invested capital exceed 18%. As we look at our cash flow needs going forward, we plan to remain disciplined in our capital allocation approach. We plan to continue working the M&A pipeline and to buyback at least $150 million of our shares this year.Please turn to slide 10 labeled Q3 and Full Year 2021 Pentair Outlook. We are initiating third quarter and updating our full year 2021 guidance. For the quarter, we expect sales to grow 16% to 19%, segment income to grow 18% to 23% and adjusted EPS to grow 16% to 21% to a range of $0.81 to 0.85. Our forecast reflects our expectations that material shortages and inflation are not going away nor will they improve materially. For the full year, we expect sales to grow 21% to 23%, segment income to increase 30% 5o 34% and adjusted EPS to grow 32% to 36% to a range of $3.30 to $3.40. Embedded in our full year sales guidance is anticipated growth in consumer solutions around 30% with pool expected to be up nearly 40% and water treatment up over 20% as commercial is expected to further recover and KBI is expected to contribute in the second half. Also incorporated in the revised guidance is anticipated low double digit growth for industrial and flow technologies.Below the operating line, we expect corporate expense to be around $80 million, given the higher levels of compensation expense in 2021, given the record performance expected this year. We expect corporate expense to go back to more normalized levels next year. We now expect net interest to be in a range of $15 million to $16 million and our tax rate to be around 16%. We anticipate the share count to average between 167 million and 168 million shares for the full year. Capital expenditures are expected to be around $60 million, while depreciation and amortization is anticipated to be around $80 million. We continue to target free cash flow to be greater than or equal to net income.I would now like to turn the call over to Michelle for Q&A, after which John will have a few closing remarks. Michelle, please open the line for questions. Thank you.