
OperatorPlease standby. Good day everyone and welcome to the Copart Incorporated First Quarter Fiscal 2022 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]For opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. John North, Chief Financial Officer of Copart Incorporated. Please go ahead, sir.John North -- Chief Financial Officer

 



Good morning. During today's call, we'll discuss certain non-GAAP measures which include adjustments to reverse payroll tax benefits related to accounting for stock option exercises. We provided a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures on our Investor Relations website and in our press release issued yesterday. We believe these non-GAAP measures together with our corresponding GAAP measures are relevant in analyzing our results and assessing our business trends and performance.In addition, our comments today include forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including management's current views with respect to trends, opportunities and uncertainties in our markets, including the COVID-19 pandemic. These forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. For more detail on the risks associated with our business, we refer you to the section titled Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2021 and each of our subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any forward-looking statements are made as of today and we have no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.And with that, I'll turn it over to our President and CEO North America, Jeffrey Liaw.Jeffrey Liaw -- President and Chief Executive Officer North America

 



Excellent. Thanks, John and good morning and thanks for joining us for the first quarter. We're pleased to report a strong first quarter for fiscal 2022, against a backdrop of various extremes persistent and evolving pandemic, changing global traffic patterns, supply chain disruptions, a strong used car price environment and an active storm season to name a few. We continue to serve our customers successfully to enhance auction liquidity and to continue our long-term trend of profitable growth.I'll elaborate on a handful of key themes for the quarter and John will provide additional perspective. My comments will center around Hurricane Ida, brief commentary there. Secondly, the health of our auctions, third, the implications of the used car price environment, and fourth, our institutional commitment just a bit to sustainability.First on Hurricane Ida. Hurricane Ida struck the Gulf states on August 29 and the Northeast region on September 1st and 2nd. This represents our most substantial storm since Hurricane Harvey in 2017 and our largest storm in the Northeast region since Hurricane Sandy in 2012. Having learned from those experiences and a litany of catastrophic events between then and now, we were better prepared for this event than any in our history, due to our very substantial investment over the years in land, in technology, in company-owned trucks, company employed drivers, heavy equipment and most importantly our dedicated CAT team who deployed at a moment's notice. Hundreds of us from around the countries met our Labor Day weekend on the ground and many weeks thereafter managing the retrieval of vehicles, receiving and imaging them and navigating the vehicles through the titling process to their eventual sale. As is often the case with major storms, we experienced an operating loss from the event in the quarter of a few million dollars. We view our pre-storm prep and our robust response to catastrophic events as investments in the strong and durable partnerships we have with our insurance sellers.Our storm-related costs, as you know from prior experiences include lease expense for temporary storage facilities, premiums for towing, labor cost and over time for our people, travel expenses and lodging among others. These expenses of course, offset by revenue from incremental unit volume. Financially speaking, the impact of the storm in the quarter was approximately 100 basis points to 150 basis points of gross and operating margin rate compression. You all know we haven't provided further specifics in our press release or included adjustments in our non-GAAP earnings scheduled for the catastrophe. We believe that providing excellent service in difficult times is an intrinsic aspect of our value proposition to our customers and that these storms will become -- will increase in frequency and severity over time.

 



The second thing I wanted to tackle is, our unit volume growth in our auction liquidity. We experienced global unit sales increase of 21% year-over-year, of which approximately 2 points was explained by the hurricane itself. A US increase of almost 24%, again, 2 or 3 points of that growth explained by Hurricane Ida. We grew our international unit sales by just shy of 8%. The COVID responses in countries outside the US as a general matter continues to be more aggressive and more pronounced than what we've experienced here stateside. Our insurance business grew relative to the first quarter of last year at 23%. We are observing certainly continued increases in total loss frequency, I'll comment more about that in a moment, and benefit from share gain as well. Driving activity itself continues to rebound relative to last year, very significantly, but still just shy on measures such as gasoline consumption of what we experienced in the year prior. Total loss frequency has increased steadily including during the pandemic, though all else equal, as many folks on the phone already know, the strong used car price environment almost certainly is an inhibitor to assignment volume all else equal to Copart auctions.Turning to our non-insurance volume. When we exclude lower value cars such as wholesalers and charities, our non-insurance business grew 7.5% year-over-year, with our dealer unit volume up slightly, approximately 1% versus last year and strong growth in our Copart Direct business. I'll note -- and you'll note, this represents solid absolute performance, but arguably the strongest relative performance in our history to other vehicle marketplaces given what is the pronounced shortage of available supply in the industry. We think this is a testament to the power of Copart's marketplace and we said it before, but it's worth reiterating. The cars we earn the right to sell on behalf of insurance companies along with rising total loss frequency, enable us to achieve superior returns for progressively more non-insurance cars as well. And it's also true in reverse. The dealer rental car, fleet, Bank and consumer cars we earn the right to sell, drive still more insurance volume and higher total loss frequency as the years go by.The next theme, I wanted to address is prices themselves. So we are experiencing of course, high used vehicle prices across the world and certainly strong ASPs at Copart Auctions as well. Our ASPs worldwide grew 11% for the -- year-over-year for the quarter, with US ASPs up 10% year-over-year as well. The Manheim Index is one industry proxy is at all time highs with the November mid month reading of 234.8. The durability of ASPs is of course a natural question, they are certainly are longer term trends in favor of high as a -- higher ASPs including our auction liquidity, total loss frequency and the like as well as growing demand from emerging economies for wrecked vehicles from our origin countries. We also continue to invest significant resources in member registration -- member recruitment registration, retention and the like. But of course, we should acknowledge the technical forces as well. There remains a chip shortage which is affecting the production of new vehicles and driving higher prices for used vehicles around the world. Our perspective, doesn't diverge from the industry consensus which indicated this chip shortage will persist well into 2022 and likely into 2023 as well.The important note here is that if and when used car prices do fall, we expect a corresponding increase in assignment volumes. Total loss frequency is negatively correlated with used car prices. The more a car is worth before the accident, the more prone it is to being repaired.Last theme, I wanted to tackle before handing it to John is, the notion of sustainability. As a long-standing cultural matter, we at Copart have always asked to be judged on our actions and results, not our words or our PowerPoint presentations, but we recognize that we're at a moment in history in which companies are being challenged to articulate their ESG position more clearly, and I'll spend a few minutes on that theme.Copart plays a critical role in the Automotive Circular Economy, enabling the reuse, recycling and responsible disposal of vehicles around the world. We sell well over 3 million vehicles per year and by matching those vehicles with their optimal owners, we enable the return to service of automobiles that would otherwise have been scrapped. The reuse of parts that otherwise would have ended up in landfills. As a result the reuse and recycling that Copart enables, displaces what otherwise would have been de novo resource extraction and energy consuming manufacturing as well. As climate events themselves increase in frequency and severity, Copart will play a growing role in assisting communities and recovering from them as we have in our past, by removing vehicles from roadways to storage facilities and repair shops, enabling the free flow of people and goods and services and economies in which we do business.And finally, because of so many of our vehicles are ultimately purchased by buyers outside the US, our Auctions contribute to be physical and economic mobility of residents and countries of emerging economies, including in Central and South America, the Middle East, Africa and Eastern Europe. If you haven't read it already, please do see our Annual Shareholder Letter on our Investor Relations website, where we explained further on these things -- on these themes among others including diversity and inclusion. We will offer more substance in the coming days in the form of a sustainability report as well.And with that, I'll turn it over to our CFO, John North to talk about the fourth quarter's financial results -- the first quarter's financial results.John North -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Jeff. Before I get into the numbers, I'd like to begin by also acknowledging, our teams effort relative to Hurricane Ida and thank them for their dedication and sacrifice. Being relatively new to the Copart family, this is my first opportunity to see us in action and to observe first-hand, the tremendous sense of ownership we take to ensure a positive outcome in the face of both disaster and tragedy. Our people and our culture have always been and will continue to be the key to our success.Now I'll make a few comments on our operational results and then we'll open it up for questions. For the first quarter, global revenue increased $217 million or 37%, including a nearly $4 million benefit due to currency. Global service revenue increased $152 million or 30%, primarily due to higher average selling prices and increased volume. US service revenue was up 31% and international experienced an increase of 18%. Purchased vehicle sales increased $65 million or 84%, due to higher ASPs and increased volume. US purchased vehicle revenue was up 87% over the prior year and international grew 79%. As a result, purchased vehicle gross profit defined as vehicle sales less cost of vehicle sales increased by $2.7 million overall. As Jeff mentioned, we had significant relative growth in our purchased vehicle volume resulting in gross and operating margin rate contraction of approximately 150 to 200 basis points.Global gross profit in the first quarter increased by $88 million or 30%, and our gross margin percentage decreased by approximately 250 basis points to 47.5%. US margins declined from 52.6% to 50.3% and international margins decreased from 37% to 33.1% due to a higher purchase vehicle mix at lower margins, partially offset by higher ASPs globally.I'll now move to a discussion of G&A expenditures excluding stock compensation and depreciation expense. G&A spend increased $5.9 million from $35.2 million a year ago to $41.1 million in 2022. Yet is lower from 5.9% of revenue to 5.1% of revenue this year. We anticipate G&A to continue to improve as a percentage of revenue as we grow our business. As a result, our GAAP operating income increased by 33% from $248.6 million to $330.1 million.First quarter income tax expense was $65.5 million at a 20.1% effective tax rate, which reflected a $3 million tax benefit on the exercise of employee stock options. Adjusting those to a non-GAAP measure included in our earnings release, change to our effective tax rate to 21%. First quarter GAAP net income increased from 30% from $200 million last year to $260 million this year. Adjusted to remove the tax benefit on the exercise of stock options, non-GAAP net income increased 37% from $188.5 million last year to $257.4 million in the first quarter of 2022.Our global inventory at the end of October increased 12% from last year. This is comprised of the year-over-year increase of 14% for US inventory and a decline of 3% for international inventory. This increase in inventory is largely a function of US accident frequency and miles driven returning to normal supplemented with the effects of Ida and share gains, partially offset by declines in international driven by countries with longer duration lockdowns as a response to COVID.Now to briefly update our liquidity and cash flow. As of the end of the quarter, we had $2.3 billion of liquidity, comprised of $1.3 billion in cash and cash equivalents and an undrawn revolving credit facility with capacity over $1 billion. Operating cash flow for the quarter increased by $54 million year-over-year to $312.5 million, driven by stronger earnings, that's $65 million in capital expenditures in the quarter, approximately 70% of this amount was attributable to capacity expansion. We are continuing to prioritize investments in physical infrastructure above other choices and believe this continued investment is helping to create durable advantages and our ability to handle increasing numbers of total loss vehicles and adjacent opportunities in the whole car marketplace. We're continuing to focus on investing for the future in both capacity and technology, while maintaining a conservative capital structure that allows operational flexibility regardless of economic changes or transitory market dynamics.And with that, we're happy to open up the call for some questions.