  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the NXP fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jeff Palmer, senior vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Jeff Palmer -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Katherine, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to the NXP Semiconductors fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. With me on the call today is Kurt Sievers, NXP's president and CEO; and Bill Betz, our CFO. The call today is being recorded and will be available for replay from our corporate website. Today's call will include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause NXP's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, the macroeconomic impact on specific end markets in which we operate, the sale of new and existing products, and our expectations for financial results for the first quarter of 2022. Please be reminded that NXP undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements. For a full disclosure on forward-looking statements, please refer to our press release.Additionally, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are driven primarily by discrete events that management does not consider to be directly related to NXP's underlying core operating performance. Pursuant to Regulation G, NXP has provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in our fourth quarter 2021 earnings press release, which will be furnished to the SEC on Form 8-K and available on NXP's website in the investor relations section at nxp.com. Before we start the call today, I'd like to highlight NXP will be attending the Morgan Stanley TMT Conference in San Francisco on March 7 and 8. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Kurt. Kurt Sievers -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you very much, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. We really appreciate you all joining our call today. I will review both our Quarter 4 and our full year 2021 performance, and then I will discuss our guidance for Quarter 1. Beginning with Quarter 4. Our revenue was $39 million better than the midpoint of our guidance, with most end markets stronger than planned, and with the trends in the communication infrastructure markets more in line with our expectations. Taken together, NXP delivered Quarter 4 revenue of $3.04 billion, an increase of 21% year over year. Non-GAAP operating margin in Quarter 4 was a strong 34.9%, 440 basis points better than the year-ago period, and about 110 basis points above the midpoint of our guidance. Year-on-year outperformance was largely due to the impact of improved factory utilization and higher revenues. For the full year, revenue was a record $11.06 billion, an increase of 28% year over year. And as 2021 progressed, our customers continued to accelerate orders on NXP. We consistently found ourselves in a situation where robust demand outstripped available supply even as production levels, both internally and from our supply partners, improved across the year. We do anticipate a continuation of strong demand throughout 2022, likely better than we originally contemplated at our recent Investor Day in November. The full year non-GAAP operating margin was solid 32.9%, a 700 basis point improvement as a result of improved factory loadings, higher revenue, and positive leverage on our operating expenses. Now let me turn to the specific trends in our focus end markets. In automotive, full year revenue was $5.49 billion, up 44% year on year, a reflection of the strong company-specific product drivers we noted at our Investor Day, the step-up in content per vehicle as OEMs prioritized premium vehicles in a limited supply environment, and the accelerated transition toward electric vehicles which have fundamentally higher semiconductor content. For Quarter 4, automotive revenue was $1.55 billion, up 30% versus the year-ago period and slightly better than our guidance.

 



 Moving to industrial and IoT. Full year revenue was $2.41 billion, up 31% year on year, driven by our solutions offering with a combination of industrial and crossover processes, wireless connectivity, and our analog attach products all driving the year-on-year growth. For Quarter 4, industrial and IoT revenue was $661 million, up 29% versus the year-ago period and better than our guidance. In mobile, full year revenue was $1.41 billion, up 13% year on year. During the year, we experienced continued strong adoption of our secure mobile wallet and early ramps of secure ultrawideband solutions, and a good traction for our mobile-embedded power solutions. These positive trends were modestly offset by a discontinuation of certain custom analog products. For Quarter 4, mobile revenue was $374 million, down 9% versus the year-ago period and better than our guidance. Lastly, I will move to communication infrastructure and Other. Full year revenue was $1.75 billion, up 3% year over year. The year-on-year growth was due to a rebound in demand for secure transit, tagging, and access solutions as well as solid demand for RF power products for the cellular base station market, somewhat tempered by the anticipated moderation in demand for network processing solutions. For Quarter 4, revenue was $457 million, up 16% year on year and in line with our guidance. In review, 2021 was an excellent year for NXP. We experienced significant design win traction across the entire portfolio and especially within the areas of our strategic growth drivers. Our priority has been to assure the health and safety of all our employees, and it is their engagement and performance which has been truly outstanding. We are extremely proud of their adaptability, dedication, and hard work in the face of adversity. Now before I will turn to our expectations for Quarter 1, I'd like to offer you some perspective on the coming year. For those who were able to join us at our recent Investor Day in November, you will remember, we offered a positive view of 2022, expecting revenue growth near the high end of our 8% to 12% long-term growth target. Now as we enter into early 2022, we are more optimistic about the opportunities in front of us, both in the short term as well as over the intermediate horizon. The demand signals from our customers continue to be very strong, inventories across all end markets appear very lean, and our ability to supply continues to improve. Hence, we anticipate 2022 will be another year of demand/supply imbalance with lead times extending out across almost the entire portfolio and the level and intensity of supply related escalation conversations with our customers remains elevated. Against this backdrop, we are guiding Quarter 1 revenue at $3.1 billion, up about 21% versus the first quarter of 2021, within a range of up 18% to up 24% year on year. And from a sequential perspective, this represents growth of about 2% at the midpoint versus the prior quarter. At the midpoint, we anticipate the following trends in our business. Automotive is expected to be up in the mid-20% range versus Quarter 1 '21 and flat versus Quarter 4 '21. Industrial and IoT is expected to be up mid-teens year on year and flat versus Quarter 4 '21. Mobile is expected to be up about 10% year on year and up in the low single-digit range versus Quarter 4 '21. And finally, communication infrastructure and other is expected to be up in the low 20% range versus the same period a year ago and up in the low double-digit range on a sequential basis. In summary, we do continue to see growing customer demand outstripping our improving supply as the inventory across all end markets remains very lean. Customer engagement levels and design win momentum in our strategic focus areas continue to be very positive. This underpins our continued confidence of robust growth throughout 2022, and we do continue to be very optimistic about the long-term potential of NXP. Now at this point, I would like to pass the call over to you, Bill, for a review of our financial performance.Bill Betz -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Kurt, and good morning to everyone on today's call. As Kurt has already covered the drivers of the revenue during Q4 and provided our revenue outlook for Q1, I will move to the financial highlights. Overall, our Q4 financial performance was very good. Revenue was above the midpoint of our guidance range and both non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP operating profit were above the high end of our guidance. I will first provide full year highlights and then move to the Q4 results. Full year revenue for 2021 was $11.06 billion, up 28% year on year. We generated $6.21 billion in non-GAAP gross profit and reported a non-GAAP gross margin of 56.1%, up 500 basis points year on year as a result of increased internal factory utilization, higher revenue levels, and product mix. Total non-GAAP operating expenses were $2.56 billion or 23.2% of the revenue, in line with our long-term model. Total non-GAAP operating profit was $3.64 billion, up 63% year on year. This reflects a non-GAAP operating margin of 32.9%, up 700 basis points year on year and consistent with our long-term financial model. Non-GAAP interest expense was $365 million. Cash taxes for ongoing operations were $276 million. Noncontrolling interest of $35 million. And stock-based compensation, which is not included in our non-GAAP earnings, was $353 million. Full year cash flow highlights includes $3.08 billion in cash flow from operations, $766 million in net capex investments, resulting in $2.31 billion of non-GAAP free cash flow or a solid 21% of revenue. During 2021, we repurchased 20.6 million shares for a total of $4.02 billion and paid cash dividends of $562 million. In total, we returned for that $4.58 billion to our owners, which was nearly 200% of the total non-GAAP free cash flow generated during the year. Now moving to the details of Q4. Total revenue was $3.04 billion, up 21% year on year and above the midpoint of our guidance range. We generated $1.74 billion in non-GAAP gross profit and reported a non-GAAP gross margin of 57.3%, up 440 basis points year on year and above the upper end of our guidance range, driven by improved utilization, higher revenue, and product mix. Total non-GAAP operating expenses were $681 million or 22.4%, up $118 million year on year and up $24 million from Q3, in line with the midpoint of our guidance, and again, consistent with our long-term model. From a total operating profit perspective, non-GAAP operating profit was $1.06 billion. And non-GAAP operating margin was 34.9%, up 440 basis points year on year, which is above the high end of our guidance, reflecting solid fall-through and operating leverage on the increased revenue level. Non-GAAP interest expense was $93 million, with cash taxes for ongoing operations of $100 million, and noncontrolling interest was $8 million. Stock-based compensation, which is not included in our non-GAAP earnings, was $88 million. Now I would like to turn to the changes in our cash and debt. Our total debt at the end of Q4 was $10.57 billion, up $979 million sequentially, as we issued $2 billion of new notes at very attractive rates with longer durations and retired early the 2022 $1 billion notes with a rate of 3.875%. Our ending cash position was $2.83 billion, up $527 million sequentially due to the cumulative effect of the previous note debt repayments, capital returns, increased capex investments, and cash generation during Q4. The resulting net debt was $7.74 billion, and we exited the quarter with a trailing month-adjusted EBITDA of $4.23 billion. Our ratio of net debt to trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA at the end of Q4 was 1.8 times and our 12-month adjusted EBITDA interest coverage was 11.6 times. Cash flow generation of the business continues to be excellent, and our balance sheet continues to be very strong. During Q4, we paid $150 million in cash dividends and repurchased $750 million of our shares. Subsequent to the end of Q4, between January 1st and January 31st, 2022, we repurchased an additional $400 million of our shares via a 10b5-1 program. Additionally, the NXP board of directors has authorized an incremental $2 billion in the company's repurchase capacity, bringing the total new authorization and remaining authorization to $3.35 billion. Further, the board has approved a 50% increase in the quarterly cash dividend, bringing the quarterly cash dividend to $0.845 per share. These actions are all aligned with our capital allocation strategy that we continue to execute to. Turning to working capital metrics. Days of inventory was 83 days, a decrease of two days sequentially, which is below our long-term target. We continue to closely manage our distribution channel with inventory in the channel at 1.5 months, also below our long-term targets. Both metrics reflect the continuation of customer shipments at a robust pace combined with supply challenges we continue to experience. We anticipate the coming year will be very similar to 2021, where customer demand is in excess of available supply. Days receivable were 28 days, down 3% sequentially. And days payable were 87%, an increase of four days versus the prior quarter, as we continue to increase orders with our suppliers. Taken together, our cash conversion cycle was 24 days, an improvement of nine days versus the prior quarter, reflecting strong customer demand, solid receivable collections, and positioning for customer deliveries in future periods. Cash flow from operations was $785 million and net capex was $266 million, resulting in a non-GAAP free cash flow of $519 million. Turning now to our expectations in the first quarter. As Kurt mentioned, we anticipate Q1 revenue to be about $3.1 billion, plus or minus about $75 million. At the midpoint, this is up 21% year-on-year and 2% sequentially. We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be about 57.3%, plus or minus 50 basis points. Operating expenses are expected to be about $693 million, plus or minus about $10 million. Taken together, we see non-GAAP operating margin to be about 35% at the midpoint. We estimate non-GAAP financial expense to be about $105 million and anticipate cash tax related to ongoing operations to be about $125 million. Noncontrolling interest will be about $9 million. For Q1, we suggest for modeling purposes, you use an average share count of 266 million shares. Finally, I have a few closing comments I'd like to make. First, as a housekeeping reminder, we anticipate our cash tax payments will trend toward 15% in 2022 based on the current U.S. tax legislation and law. As can be seen in our Q1 guidance, we are expecting a slightly lower tax rate in the short term and anticipate it will increase as we progress through the year. Secondly, we are investing to support our more profitable long-term growth. We currently have about $4 billion of long-term material supply obligations, as discussed at the Investor Day. Our capex investments for 2022 will be above the high end of our long-term capex model. These investments are focused on the combination of assured external foundry wafer supply, expansion of our internal back-end capacity, and a modest expansion of our internal front-end capabilities. While significant, the investments we are committed to are more than balanced by the robust level of noncancelable, nonreturnable orders from our customers. In closing, we are very confident in our profitable growth over the intermediate to long term, especially in the key areas of the accelerated growth drivers as we highlighted during Investor Day. Our gross profit will continue to expand. And we have demonstrated solid control over our operating expenses while consistently investing in those areas which will enable our long-term growth. Together, these results in solid operating profit leverage and robust cash flow generation. And lastly, we have a proven track record of returning all excess free cash flow to our owners via our clear capital return policy. With that, I'd like to turn it back to the operator for questions. 