
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to NXP's 2Q '21 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Mr. Jeff Palmer, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.Jeff Palmer -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you, Crystal, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to the NXP Semiconductor's second quarter 2021 earnings call. With me on the call today is Kurt Sievers, NXP's President and CEO; and Peter Kelly, our CFO. The call today is being recorded and will be available for replay from our corporate website.Today's call will include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that can cause NXP's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, the macroeconomic impact on specific end markets in which we operate, the sale of new and existing products and our expectations for the financial results for the third quarter of 2021. Please be reminded that NXP undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements. For a full disclosure of forward-looking statements, please refer to our press release.Additionally, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are driven primarily by discrete events that management does not consider to be directly related to NXP's underlying core operating performance. Pursuant to Regulation G, NXP has provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in our Q2 earnings press release, which will be furnished to the SEC on Form 8-K and available on NXP's website in the Investor Relations section at nxp.com.Before we start the call today, I'd like to highlight our upcoming 2021 Analyst Day. At this time, we are planning on hosting an in-person event in New York City on Thursday, November 11, 2021. We will open up an online registration site over the next week, and we would suggest interested parties to pre-register as space will be limited this cycle.I would like to now turn the call over to Kurt.Kurt Sievers -- President and Chief Executive OfficerYeah. Thank you very much, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. We really appreciate you joining our call today. I will review our quarter two results and I will discuss our guidance for quarter three. Furthermore, I will provide an updated perspective on how we view the current demand environment.Now let me start with quarter two. Overall, our results were better than the midpoint of our guidance with the contribution from the communication infrastructure end markets stronger than planned and above the high end of our guidance. At the same time, the trends in the auto, industrial and mobile markets were all slightly above the midpoint of our guidance. Taken together, NXP delivered quarter two revenue of $2.6 billion, an increase of 43% year-on-year and $26 million above the midpoint of our guidance range.These are very good results given the constrained supply position we knew we would face entering the quarter. Our non-GAAP operating margin in quarter two was a strong 32%, 1,130 basis points better than the year ago period and 70 basis points above the midpoint of our guidance. Our strong operating profit performance was driven by a richer product mix.Now let me turn to the specific trends in our focused end markets. In automotive, quarter two revenue was $1.26 billion, up 87% versus the year ago period and slightly above the midpoint of our guidance. In industrial and IoT, quarter two revenue was $571 million, up 31% versus the year ago period and slightly above the midpoint of our guidance. In mobile, quarter two revenue was $347 million, up 36% versus the year ago period and slightly above the midpoint of our guidance. And lastly, in communication infrastructure and other, quarter two revenue was $416 million, down 8% year-on-year, however, about $21 million better than our guidance.With this, let me move to our outlook. We are guiding the midpoint of quarter three revenue to $2.85 billion, up 26% versus the third quarter of 2020, within the range of up 22% to up 29% year-on-year. From a sequential perspective, this is up 10% at the midpoint versus the prior quarter. At the midpoint of this range, we anticipate the following trends in our business. Automotive is expected to be up in the low-50% range versus quarter three 2020 and up in the mid-teens range versus quarter two '21. Industrial and IoT is expected to be up in the high-teens percent range year-on-year and up in the mid-single-digit range versus quarter two '21. Mobile is expected to be down in the low-single-digit range year-on-year and down in the mid-single-digit range versus quarter two '21. And finally, communication infrastructure and other is expected to be up in the low-single-digit range versus the same period a year ago and up about 10% on a sequential basis.At this point, let me give you an update on NXP's current demand position. As I shared with you on our last earnings call, we had anticipated product supply to be a challenge in quarter two, and this is indeed what we experienced. With the continuation of robust demand, we expect supply to be a challenge for the foreseeable future. We do continue to work very closely with our customers on a day-to-day basis to accommodate their most pressing short-term requirements.During quarter two, based on the orders and all of the various actions we took over the last six to nine months, we began to see wafer supply from our foundry partners and internal fabs improve. We do anticipate continued increase of wafer supply during quarter three and beyond, which will support our revenue growth in subsequent quarters. However, with customer demand outstripping current supply, a situation that we see across all our end markets, we are working diligently to secure additional supply to achieve a healthy balance of demand versus supply.A significant number of our customers are also taking action by placing non-cancellable and non-returnable orders for the medium term. Furthermore, based on customer discussions and also based on our own analysis, we do not believe there is excess inventory of NXP components along the extended supply chain.Additionally, we continue to make significant investments as a direct result of the very detailed conversations and associated commitments concerning long-term demand across our customer base, especially within the automotive and industrial end markets. These investments include long-term contractual commitments to our front end foundry partners in order to assure supply as well as making investments to expand our internal front end capacity and our internal back end test and assembly capabilities so as to avoid potential bottlenecks as wafer supply materializes.Notwithstanding this challenging supply environment, our results and guidance clearly validate the excellent underlying long-term growth, profitability and cash-generating capability of our business. We continue to see our company-specific key revenue growth drivers in our strategic end markets unfold as we have long anticipated. These drivers include our 77 gigahertz radar systems, our e-corporate solutions, the domain and zonal processes and the electrification products, including our battery management systems, all in the automotive market.And within the broad-based industrial and IoT market, our significant and focused investments to enable complete secure connected edge processing solutions are being very well validated by strong customer design win awards. And these are just a few of the opportunities we have shared with you at our Product Teach-In, all of them will continue to contribute to our future growth. While we will not provide specific guidance beyond the current quarter, we do anticipate quarter four revenue will be greater than quarter three on an absolute basis. And we are highly confident that 2021 marks just the beginning of a longer term upside for NXP within our strategic end markets.In summary, we are very encouraged by the continued and consistent rapid rebound in demand across our end markets. Our employees are highly engaged to drive our success. We have a robust pipeline of new and innovative products. And the customer response engagement and design win momentum all underpin our optimism about the future potential of NXP.Before concluding my prepared remarks, I would like to speak to the impact the COVID-19 pandemic continues to have on NXP. The pandemic remains active with spikes that continue to plague multiple regions where we have operations, namely India in the second quarter and Southeast Asia most recently. We continued to remain very vigilant enforcing our safety protocols across all of our global sites. We have initiated successful vaccination drives in several countries for our team members and their families. However, the highly contagious Delta variant has required that we reverse to a complete work from home situation in several of our locations.I am extremely proud of all our employees for their dedication and for their resilience during this very challenging period. I would like to especially commend our manufacturing operations and customer-facing teams for their relentless focus and energy while assuring our customer success. It is their dedication and their hard work in the face of the pandemic and the very challenging supply environment at the same time, which truly make a difference.Now I would like to pass the call over to you, Peter, for a review of our financial performance. Peter?Peter Kelly -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Kurt. Good morning to everyone on today's call. As Kurt has already covered the drivers of the revenue during the second quarter and provided our revenue outlook for the third quarter, I'll move to the financial highlights. Overall, our second quarter financial performance was very good, revenues were above the midpoint of our guidance range and we drove an improvement of non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP operating profit, both of which were above the high end of our guidance range. Additionally, we have implemented long-term supply agreements with our foundry partners, which we believe will enable NXP to deliver robust growth in the coming periods.Now moving to the details of the second quarter. Total revenue was $2.6 billion, up 43% year-on-year and above the midpoint of our guidance range. We generated $1.46 billion in non-GAAP gross profit and reported a non-GAAP gross margin of 56.1%, up 700 basis points year-on-year and above the high end of our guidance. Total non-GAAP operating expenses were $626 million, up $110 million year-on-year and up $26 million from the second quarter. This was $3 million above the midpoint of our guidance due to increased variable comp driven by an improved first half performance.From a total operating profit perspective, non-GAAP operating profit was $830 million and non-GAAP operating margin was 32%, up 1,130 basis points year-on-year and was above the high end of our guidance. Non-GAAP interest expense was $91 million, $4 million above guidance as we issued $2 billion of new debt early in the quarter. Cash taxes for ongoing operations were $50 million and non-controlling interest was $9 million. Taken together, the below the line items were $1 million better than our guidance. Stock-based compensation, which is not included in our non-GAAP earnings, was $93 million.Now I'd like to turn to the changes in our cash and debt. Our total debt at the end of the second quarter was $9.59 billion, an increase of $1.98 billion due to the previously mentioned debt issuance. Our ending cash position was $2.91 billion, up $1.07 billion sequentially due to new debt and cash generation, offset by capital returns during the quarter. The resulting net debt was $6.68 billion, and we exited the quarter with a trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA of $3.55 billion.Our ratio of net debt to trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA at the end of Q2 was 1.9 times, and our 12-month adjusted EBITDA interest coverage was 10 times. Our liquidity is excellent and our balance sheet continues to be very strong. During the second quarter, we repurchased $1.2 billion of our shares and paid $155 million in cash dividends for a total of $1.36 billion of capital return to our owners. Subsequent to the end of the second quarter between July 5 and August 2, we repurchased an additional $1 billion of our shares via our 10b5-1 program, resulting in a total of $3.37 billion returned to our owners year-to-date.Turning to working capital metrics. Days of inventory was 88 days, an increase of 7 days sequentially. Our DIO continues to be below our long-term target of 95 days, and a sequential increase in the quarter was due to an increase in work in process driven by wafer supplies -- wafer supply deliveries to support our Q3 revenue ramp, while finished goods continued to drain to very low levels. We continue to closely manage our distribution channel with inventory in the channel at 1.6 months, flat sequentially and below our long-term targets. Both metrics reflect the continuation of strong customer order rates and a tight supply environment. It will take several quarters before we're able to rebuild on-hand inventory -- on-hand and channel inventories to our long-term target levels.Days receivables were 35 days, up 5 days sequentially and days payable were 92, an increase of 13 days versus the prior quarter as we continue to increase material orders to our suppliers. Taken together, our cash conversion cycle was 31 days, an improvement of 1 day versus the prior quarter, reflecting strong customer demand, solid receivables collections and positioning for customer deliveries in future periods. Cash flow from operations was $636 million and net capex was $150 million, resulting in non-GAAP free cash flow of $486 million.Turning to our expectations for the third quarter. As Kurt mentioned, we anticipate Q3 revenue to be $2.85 billion plus or minus $75 million. At the midpoint, this is up 26% year-on-year and 10% sequentially. We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be about 56.3% plus or minus 30 basis points. Operating expenses are expected to be about $665 million plus or minus about $10 million, consistent with our long-term model. Taken together, we see non-GAAP operating margin to be about 33% at the midpoint.We estimate non-GAAP financial expense to be about $96 million and anticipate cash tax related to ongoing operations to be about $90 million. Please note, during the second quarter, we indicated that we anticipated full year cash taxes for 2021 to be approximately 9% and then it would be back end loaded into the second half of the year. Non-controlling interest will be about $9 million. And for Q3, we suggest that for modeling purposes, you use an average share count of 271 million shares, which is down about 13% -- sorry, down about 13 million shares from the year ago period as a result of the consistent execution of our communicated capital return policy.Finally, I have a few closing comments I'd like to make. One, demand trends continue to be strong across our target end markets and customer interest in our newest products continues to be robust. We are diligently working with our customers and our suppliers to address order request in a timely manner. Secondly, our third quarter guidance reflects the clear potential of our business model, both in terms of revenue growth as well as the significant profit flow through, which will enable us to drive our non-GAAP gross margin above the midpoint of our gross margin targets. Thirdly, our business continues to generate significant free cash flow. We continue to invest in our internal manufacturing capabilities, increasing capex to expand our back end capacity, but also to increase the output capacity of our existing front end wafer factories. We are steadfastly committed to our capital return policy and will return all excess cash free -- all excess free cash flow to our owners so long as our leverage ratio remains at or below 2 times net debt to trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA.As Kurt mentioned, we believe the demand environment is strong. And notwithstanding the supply constraints, we continue to anticipate robust growth for the remainder of 2021 as well as into 2022. Finally, I'd like to thank all my colleagues for their outstanding work and dedication. We shouldn't forget that we are all still working on the stringent pandemic protocols.I'd like to now turn it back to the operator for your questions.