  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the first quarter fiscal 2022 Hewlett Packard Enterprise earnings conference call. My name is Chuck, and I'll be your conference moderator for today's call. At this time, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session toward the end of our conference. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call, Mr. Andrew Simanek, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Andrew Simanek -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm Andy Simanek, head of investor relations for Hewlett Packard Enterprise. I'd like to welcome you to our fiscal 2022 first quarter earnings conference call with Antonio Neri, HPE's president and chief executive officer; and Tarek Robbiati, HPE's executive vice president and chief financial officer. Before handing the call over to Antonio, let me remind you that this call is being webcast. A replay of the webcast will be made available shortly after the call for approximately one year. We posted the press release and the slide presentation accompanying today's earnings release on our HPE investor relations web page at investors.hpe.com. As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.For more detailed information, please see the disclaimers on the earnings materials relating to forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. For a discussion of some of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, please refer to HPE's filings with the SEC, including its most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. HPE assumes no obligation and does not intend to update any such forward-looking statements. We also note that the financial information discussed on this call reflects estimates based on information available at this time and could differ materially from the amounts ultimately reported in HPE's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2022. Also for financial information that has been expressed on a non-GAAP basis, we have provided reconciliations to the comparable GAAP information on our website. Please refer to the tables and slide presentation accompanying today's earnings release on our website for details. Throughout this conference call, all revenue growth rates, unless noted otherwise, are presented on a year-over-year basis and adjusted to exclude the impact of currency. Finally, after Antonio provides his high-level remarks, Tarek will be referencing the slides in our earnings presentation throughout his prepared remarks.

 



 As mentioned, the earnings presentation can be found posted to our website and is also embedded within the webcast player for this earnings call. With that, let me turn it over to Antonio. Antonio Neri -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Andy, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. Before I discuss our results, I would like to address the evolving situation in Ukraine and how we are responding. Our first priority in the region is the safety of our team members, our contingent workers, and their immediate families. We are conducting regular proactive outreach to our workforce in Ukraine to offer emergency assistance, making our security team available 24/7 to help. The HPE Foundation has established a special giving campaign for our team members to support humanitarian efforts in Ukraine, which has already raised $150,000 in just over 24 hours. And we are expanding the time off we offer team members to volunteer, so those in the regions can care for their families and participate in humanitarian relief activities. From a business perspective, we have suspended all shipments into Russia at this time, and we'll continue to adhere through all relevant sanctions and export controls.

 



 Now let me review our results for the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Hewlett Packard Enterprise delivered a solid performance. The quarter was characterized by robust customer demand and profitability, demonstrating the strength of our differentiated edge-to-cloud strategy and our portfolio innovation. Our business pivot is further strengthening our gross and operating margins. As a result of our overall performance this quarter, we are increasing our outlook for non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share for the full fiscal year 2022. In Q1, we saw order growth of 20% from the prior-year period, including 136% rise in other service orders. We increased total HPE revenue by 2% year over year to $7 billion despite continued industrywide supply constraints, which slowed our ability to convert orders and record-breaking backlog to revenue. We generated a non-GAAP gross profit margins of 33.9%, higher than the prior quarter and prior year. I'm particularly pleased that we delivered 11% non-GAAP operating margin. Free cash flow was negative $577 million in the quarter, reflecting normal seasonality and proactive actions we continue to take to further buffer inventories in order to meet robust customer demand and forward-looking growth. The performance was -- we delivered this quarter was noteworthy in a macro environment that continues to be defined industrywide by supply shortages and overloaded logistics channels. Our global operations team is mitigating impact by prudently building inventory where appropriate and leaning on our long standard supplier relationships. We continue to utilize our world-class supply chain engineering capabilities to adjust the type of components we use, shifting to those that are more readily available. We are not seeing any noticeable order cancellations for customers due to elongated delivery times, and we'll continue to take pricing actions in this inflationary environment. As we discussed previously, we expect supply constraints will likely last well into the second half of calendar year 2022. Demand for our differentiated edge-to-cloud products and solutions continues to be very strong, with Q1 marking the third consecutive quarter we have generated year-over-year order growth above 20%. This was also the second conservative quarter that our as-a-service orders more than doubled year over year. Customers are turning to HPE for a differentiated portfolio, adopting our solutions to drive their transformation at a faster and faster pace. Several key technology trends that are shaping the IT industry are aligned directly with our strategy to become the edge-to-cloud company through our HPE GreenLake platform offering. The edge is creating new sources of data. Our customers need secure connectivity to power the emerging distributed enterprise with remote workforces while delivering new digital experience to their shareholders. The world is hybrid. Cloud is an experience that customers increasingly expect to have wherever the workload leads. The result is a growing demand for multi-cloud experiences, including clouds that live on-premises, at the edge, in colocations, or in a public cloud. We have entered the age of insight, and data is the most precious asset. Digital transformation is creating new possibilities for enterprises and customer needs solution to attract insights from the data to accelerate business outcomes. And when customers tell us they want to address this market shift, they are increasingly looking to do so through a flexible as-a-service consumption model that enables them to pay only for the IT they use. Customers seeking to capitalize on these market trend opportunities are turning to HPE GreenLake as the platform of choice. As always, Tarek will provide details about the business results for each of our segments. I will note a few highlights that underscore our performance this quarter, as well as our innovation interaction with customers. Customers' requirements for a unified operating experience across edge-to-cloud and the desire to consume IT in a flexible way is fueling the tremendous orders growth of our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform, which saw record demand in Q1 with as-a-service orders up 136% year over year. During the quarter, we added more than 100 new HPE GreenLake customers, bringing the total count to more than now 1,350 customers who have adopted the HPE GreenLake platform for its -- because of its compelling value proposition. Among the new HPE GreenLake customers we announced in Q1 was Barclays, which has used an HPE GreenLake to deliver its private cloud platform as a part of the bank's hybrid multi-cloud strategy and digital transformation across its global banking businesses. The traction we are seeing in the market for HPE GreenLake is driving us to further accelerate the transformation of HPE into an edge-to-cloud company. On March 22, we will unveil significant new innovations and enhancements to our HPE GreenLake platform to help customers manage their hybrid clouds more easily, protect and get more value from their data and securely connect at the edge. Our as-a-service transformation is my No. 1 priority, and it is already delivering results for our shareholders as evidenced in our Q1 performance and increased non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share guidance for the full fiscal year 2022. Our other service pivot is accelerating our momentum in key growth businesses. Our intelligent edge business segment grew revenues 11% year over year and for the fourth consecutive quarter, so year-over-year orders growth of over 35% driven by the very strong demand in secure connectivity from edge-to-cloud. Our Aruba Edge cloud offerings continue to garner new customers. The Aruba Central cloud-native platform now manages more than 120,000 customers and more than 1.9 million network devices. In Q1, we announced that our Aruba cloud-managed branch offering is being adopted by Brasfield & Gorrie, one of the largest private health construction companies in the United States. The company is using our networking portfolio to elevate their construction site innovation with impressive tools like virtual reality views of projects before they are built. Also in the quarter, we introduced the Aruba EdgeConnect Microbranch, an industry-leading home office, cloud-based networking solution that lets remote personnel work seamlessly and securely wherever they are located. Our high-performance computing and AI business also generated a noteworthy product order growth of more than 20% year over year, which has increased our total order book to a record of approximately $2.7 billion. During the quarter, we announced a win with the United States Department of Energy, National renewable Energy Laboratory to build a new supercomputer that will advance R&D for tomorrow's clean energy systems. Our compute and storage businesses experienced robust order growth and outstanding profitability. In Q1, nearly 10% of compute and storage orders were sold as a service. Compute generated more than 20% order growth year over year, expanded gross margins and attractive operating margins, up 240 basis points year over year, driven by strong pricing discipline. Storage drove product order growth of more than 15% year over year for the fourth consecutive quarter. Innovation is unrelenting as we transform this segment into a data services business. For example, in Q1, our venture arm Hewlett Packard Pathfinder invested in BigID. This is a leading data intelligent platform to help organizations realize detailed insights in their sensitive personal and critical data and then act on it. Our HPE Pointnext Services team is helping customers navigate through their multigenerational IT journey while modernizing, building, and running the new hybrid IT estates. In Q1, HPE Pointnext Services orders increased mid-single digits year over year. Turning to our workforce. We reopened all of our United States offices last month to those who wish to return after careful analysis for information and guidance from the public health officials. I was very pleased to meet team members in person at a new cutting-edge Houston headquarters. You may have caught a glimpse of our Houston campus innovation in the video that ran before this call. We look forward to the official grand opening in April. Alongside advancing our rewarding workplace, I also believe HPE has a responsibility to become a more climate-resilient company. And we know it is a priority for our customers and shareholders. HPE Financial Services plays an important role in our sustainability strategy, providing asset upcycling to customers, which means reuse of millions of technology assets while freeing up capital for customers to reinvest in their businesses. Customers are choosing HPE in part because of our portfolio sustainability attributes. In fact, in fiscal year 2021, we drove nearly $900 million in revenue from sustainability-related customers' engagements. I am proud of our team members not just for bringing breakthrough customer-centric innovation, but for how they are bringing it to market. We are making bold moves to maximize what we can do for our customers and shareholders. It is this type of collaboration and engagement that's propelling our business transformation. It is clear from strong customer feedback and momentum across our businesses that HPE is increasingly well-positioned to capitalize on the edge-to-cloud mega trends that define our IT industry. HPE GreenLake is at the center of our strategy to pivot the company, and it is generating record-breaking demand with impressive profitability across our business. This continue to be uncertain times. As we monitor the dynamic global stage, I am more confident than ever about our future and our ability to drive long-term sustainable profitable growth for our shareholders because of our strategy and differentiated innovation. Now I would like Tarek to talk you through the quarter's performance in detail. Tarek?Tarek Robbiati -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you very much, Antonio. I'll start with a summary of our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2022. As usual, I'll be referencing the slides from our earnings presentation to guide you through our performance. Antonio discussed the key highlights on Slide 1, so now let me discuss our Q1 performance details, starting with Slide 2. We are off to a good start, delivering against our commitments for fiscal year '22 with strong momentum continuing to build across the business. The demand continues to be robust for our differentiated edge-to-cloud portfolio, with order growth up 20% year over year, marking our third quarter in a row with order growth at or above 20% year over year. This bolsters our confidence in achieving both our fiscal year '22 revenue outlook of 3% to 4% adjusted for currency and our longer term 2% to 4% revenue CAGR outlook provided at our 2021 Securities Analyst Meeting. We delivered Q1 revenues of $7 billion, up 2% year over year and in line with our outlook of normal sequential seasonality despite a continuously challenging supply environment. As a result, our backlog further increased to record levels with a firm order book that shows no signs of double ordering or any noticeable cancellations. We were particularly pleased with the quality of our earnings, including the resiliency of our gross margins despite the ongoing supply constraints that are driving up material and logistics costs. We delivered non-GAAP gross margin of 33.9%, up 90 basis points sequentially and 20 basis points year over year, driven primarily by strong pricing discipline and our continued mix shift toward higher-margin, software-rich offerings. Non-GAAP operating margin has also been resilient at 11%, slightly down 30 basis points year over year, but up 130 basis points sequentially. We're achieving all of the expected savings from our cost actions announced mid-pandemic while continuing to make investments in our high-growth, margin-rich areas of our portfolio to fuel further revenue and profitability. Within other income and expense, we benefited from further strong gains related to increased valuations in our investment portfolio and robust operational performance in HPC. As a result, we now expect non-GAAP other income and expense for fiscal year '22 to be an income of approximately $25 million versus prior guidance of a $20 million to $40 million expense. As a result of our strength in margins that more than offset the continued supply challenges, we delivered non-GAAP EPS of $0.53, well above the high end of our outlook range of $0.42 to $0.50 for Q1. As previously indicated, we expect the free cash flow to be in line with our typical seasonality that is lowest in Q1, with a use of cash of $577 million for this quarter. We also continue to take strategic inventory actions to navigate the current supply environment. Our inventory is now up $2.5 billion year over year to $5.3 billion in support of the substantial order book that we have. This will better position us to convert orders into future revenue and cash flow. Finally, we continued to return substantial capital to our shareholders. We paid $155 million of dividends in the current quarter and are declaring a Q2 dividend today of $0.12 per share payable in April. We also repurchased $129 million in shares during Q1, reflecting our confidence in future cash flow generation. Slide 3 highlights key metrics of our growing as-a-service business. We made meaningful progress during Q1. We added more than 100 customers and well over $500 million of total contract value that brings the current total TCV to more than $6.5 billion. Total as-a-service orders were up 136% year over year. As a proof point of our as-a-service pivot momentum, as-a-service-order growth has accelerated every quarter going back to Q1 of last year. Our ARR was up 23% year over year to $798 million with supply constraints limiting some installations. While our ARR growth might be somewhat volatile in the current supply environment, the strong accelerated -- accelerating order growth over the last several quarters is the best indicator of long-term health of this business. This gives us confidence in delivering our 35% to 45% CAGR target from fiscal year '21 to fiscal year '24, with increasing margins as our mix of both software and services continue to increase to 64% in Q1, up more than 4 points year over year. Now let's turn to our segment highlights on Slide 4. Our growth businesses continue to show improving top line momentum and record levels of backlog fueled by strong demand. In the intelligent edge, demand for our secure connectivity solutions continued unabated with orders growing more than 35% year over year, the fourth consecutive quarter. Despite increasing supply constraints, revenue grew 11% year over year with strength across the portfolio. Both wired switching and wireless LAN grew approximately 10%, with Aruba Services up even stronger, driven by our edge-as-a-service offerings up strong double digits. We also delivered strong operating margins of 17.4%, this is a 650-basis-point sequential improvement despite higher component and logistics costs, demonstrating that our price actions are sticking. In HPC and AI, demand remains robust with product order growth of more than 20% year over year, driving our awarded contracts total to another record level of approximately $2.7 billion. Revenue grew 4% year over year but was impacted by two large customer acceptance delays that impacted growth by more than 10 points in Q1 and are now on track to be delivered in Q2. Our Q1 operating profit was obviously also impacted by these pushouts, and we expect operating margins to return to more in range with historical levels going forward. In compute, order growth was up over 20% year over year for the third consecutive quarter while revenue growth was flat, reflecting the difficult supply environment. We have been very focused on executing a dynamic pricing strategy that has been effective in managing the increased supply and logistic costs. The results are showing up in our operating margin performance at 13.8%, up 240 basis points year over year and 440 basis points sequentially, well above our long-term target of 11% to 13%. Within storage, product order growth was up in the high teens year over year. This was the fourth quarter in a row of 15% or better year-over-year product order growth. Revenue was down 3%, reflecting increasing supply constraints, particularly for our owned IP products. As a result, we had an unfavorable revenue mix that pressured our margins this quarter. We expect both our revenue growth rates and margins to improve over the next few quarters as we continue to shift our portfolio toward higher-margin products and supply constraints ease. With respect to Pointnext Operational Services, including storage services, orders grew mid-single digits year over year, as reported similar to levels for total fiscal year '21. As you know, this is a very important for the long-term health of our most profitable business. Within HPE Financial Services, volume increased 11% year over year, and revenue was down 1%. Our write-offs as a percentage of assets, excluding the impact of two frauds in the U.K. and Asia Pacific was 47 basis points, which is below pre-pandemic levels. Our profitability also continues to benefit from higher residual value's realization and lower borrowing costs as we continue to securitize our U.S. portfolio via the ABS market. Our operating margin was 12.4%, up 260 basis points from the prior year, and our return on equity at 19.7% remains well above the 18-plus percent target set at SAM 2021. Slide 5 highlights our revenue and EPS performance where you can clearly see the strong rebound from last year and sustained momentum entering fiscal year '22, and this despite a more supply constrained environment versus a year ago. We are also delivering a better quality of earnings with our portfolio mix continuing to shift to our higher growth and higher-margin businesses as we execute our edge-to-cloud strategy. Turning to Slide 6. We delivered non-GAAP gross margins in Q1 of 33.9%, up both year over year and sequentially despite all of the increased component and logistic costs. This was driven by both strong pricing discipline and the favorable mix shift we've been driving toward edge and our as-a-service business. Moving to Slide 7. You can see our non-GAAP operating margin this quarter of 11%, representing a 130-basis-point sequential increase. We also delivered roughly the same operating profit versus last year despite a more challenging supply environment while continuing to invest significantly more in both R&D and our go-to-market for the future, thanks to a much better quality of earnings and gross margins. Turning to Slide 8. Our free cash flow was a use of cash of $577 million. This is more aligned to our typical pre-pandemic seasonality if you look at Q1 in fiscal year '20 or the prior years. Cash flow in Q1 of this year has also been uniquely impacted by the supply chain environment as we have strategically continued building inventory levels. This will better position us to begin converting orders and generate healthy amounts of cash in the back half of the year, reflecting also our typical seasonality. We, therefore, continue to expect to deliver fiscal year '22 free cash flow of $1.8 billion to $2 billion. Now turning to our outlook on Slide 9. Given our strong performance in Q1 and building momentum across the business, I am pleased to announce that we are raising our full year non-GAAP diluted net EPS outlook range for fiscal year '22 by $0.07 at the midpoint to $2.03 to $2.17. From a top-line perspective, we were very pleased with the continued strength in orders and growing backlog that gives us confidence in future revenue growth in fiscal year '22 and beyond. We do also want to remain prudent in the short term given the ongoing supply challenges that we continue to believe will likely last well into the second half of the calendar year. As a result, we still have strong confidence in our fiscal year '22 revenue outlook of growth of 3% to 4% and expect to end the year with elevated levels of backlog, which bodes well for fiscal year '23. More specifically, for Q2 2022, we expect revenue to be in line with our normal sequential seasonality of down low to mid-single digits and are comfortable with current consensus. As a result, for Q2 '22, we expect GAAP diluted net EPS of $0.18 to $0.26 and non-GAAP diluted net EPS of $0.41 to $0.49. So overall, I am very pleased with our first quarter of fiscal year '22. Our edge-to-cloud strategy is resonating with customers and driving strong demand across our portfolio. This enabled us to deliver a good start to the fiscal year with increasing momentum and a raised outlook. We are very well-positioned to capitalize on the ongoing opportunity and deliver against all of our financial commitments set at SAM 2021. Now with that, let's open it up for questions. Thank you. 