
OperatorGood morning, everyone, and welcome to the Healthpeak Properties Inc. Second Quarter Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Andrew Johns, Vice President Corporate Finance and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Andrew Johns -- Vice President-Corporate Finance and Investor Relations

 



Welcome to Healthpeak's second quarter 2021 financial results conference call. Today's conference call will contain certain forward-looking statements. Although, we believe expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.A discussion of risks and risk factors is included in our press release and detailed in our filings with the SEC. We do not undertake a duty to update any forward-looking statements. Certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on this call and exhibit to the 8-K refreshed to the SEC yesterday. We have reconciled all non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Reg G requirements. This exhibit is also mailed on our website at healthpeak.com.I'll now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer, Tom Herzog.Thomas M. Herzog -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Andrew, and good morning, everyone. On the call with me today are Scott Brinker, our President and CIO; and Pete Scott, our CFO. Also on the line and available for the Q&A portion of the call are Tom Klaritch, our COO; and Troy McHenry, our Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel. We've maintained our strong start to the year. Our life science MOB and CCRC businesses continue to perform well. Our balance sheet is in great shape. Our exit from rental senior housing is substantially complete, and we are having good success redeploying excess sales proceeds, and have built a strong acquisition pipeline.Let me hit the high points. Operating results across all three of our core businesses were ahead of our expectations. We're down to the final $150 million of rental senior housing sales, which are all under binding contracts. This leaves us with our interest in the sovereign wealth JV, which we will continue to evaluate with our partner. We acquired $425 million of MOBs in Q2, and another $205 million in July, and which combined with our first quarter activity brings our year-to-date MOB acquisitions to $640 million, all of which were done on an off-market basis.On the development side, life science market dynamics, projected deliveries, and pre-leasing all remain favorable. During the second quarter, we signed a full campus lease for our Callan Ridge densification project. And yesterday, announced Sorrento Gateway is also fully spoken for, bringing our active life science development pipeline to 73% pre-leased or committed. Earlier this month, we issued $450 million of senior unsecured bonds, due in 2027, in our inaugural green bond offering. Given our operational progress, we raised our FFO adjusted guidance by $0.01 at the midpoint, and same-store guidance by 50 basis points at the midpoint. Finally in July, we published our tenth annual ESG report. Our ESG program continues to produce meaningful results and received industry and global recognition. Our team at Healthpeak is very pleased with the progress we've made over the last decade and are continuing to pursue and invest in initiatives that improve our overall ESG performance and support our long-term goals. So everything is progressing very well.With that, I'll turn it over to Scott Brinker.

 



Scott M. Brinker -- President and Chief Investment OfficerThank you, Tom. I'll begin with operating results then provide an update on our development and investment activities. Starting with life science. 2020 saw record-setting biotech capital raising. 2021 is on pace to exceed those records. Capital inflows are fueling scientific breakthroughs and leading to accelerating real estate fundamentals. Demand continues to exceed supply and vacancies are at all-time lows driving market rent growth of 10% or more over the past year.During the quarter, we signed 233000 feet of renewals at a 22% cash mark-to-market plus 121,000 feet of new leases. We've already exceeded our full year internal leasing budget and 3Q is off to a strong start. In July we signed 90,000 feet of new leases and we currently have a large pipeline under signed letters of intent including 345,000 feet of renewals, 70,000 feet of new leasing and 415,000 feet on new developments.Same-store NOI growth for the quarter was 7.4% and bringing year-to-date growth to 7.9%. The results were driven by in-place escalators, leasing activity, mark-to-market on renewals and burn off of free rent from the prior year. As discussed on the last call we do expect same-store growth to moderate in the second half of the year due to difficult comps and proactive early terminations that will benefit future years.Moving to medical office. Same-store NOI growth this quarter was 4.1% driven by leasing activity ad rents strong collections and parking income. Hospital inpatient and outpatient volumes have returned to pre-COVID levels benefiting our unique on-campus portfolio. Leasing activity continues to outperform. We had more than 800,000 feet of commencements in the quarter which is 200,000 feet ahead of plan. Retention is strong at 78% for the trailing 12 months including 93% in June.Year-to-date we've already completed 90% of our full year internal leasing budget. Note that total portfolio occupancy declined a bit last quarter. This was driven by recently completed development and redevelopment properties entering the portfolio that are still in lease-up, plus a few recent acquisitions lease-up opportunity. This gives us more NOI to capture in the future. Finishing with CCRCs where performance continues to recover.Occupancy was up 90 basis points from March to June. Entry fee cash receipts were $24 million representing the highest level since 2019 and leading indicators are now in line with 2019 levels. With current occupancy at 80% we have significant upside to capture at least 500 basis points on the low end. Same-store cash NOI growth was negative 23% for the quarter driven by the CARES Act payments received in 2Q '20. Absent these onetime payments same-store growth was positive 23% this quarter.Turning to our development pipeline. We've executed guaranteed maximum price contracts on all of our active development projects so we have very limited exposure to rising construction costs. Lease-up continues to exceed our underwriting on both rental rate and timing. In June, we signed a full building lease on our Callan Ridge densification project in San Diego. We expect to deliver the $140 million project in the first half of 2023 with a yield on cost in the low 9s based on the book value of our land. In July, we signed a binding term sheet for the entire 163,000 square foot rental gateway development also in San Diego. We expect to deliver the $117 million project in the first half of 2023 with a yield on cost in the mid-8s based on the book value of our land.Those yields are far above what's achievable at today's land prices. If we mark our land to market, the yield on cost in the core markets where we play is more in the 6% to 7% range at today's construction costs and rental rates. Moving to investments. In July, we closed the off-market acquisition of three MOBs that are leased to Atlantic Health. The asset share a campus proximate to the Morristown Medical Center generally regarded as the number one hospital in New Jersey. The stabilized cash cap rate is in the mid-5s.The acquisition also included a land parcel on the same campus that can accommodate up to 80,000 square feet of medical office development. Also in July, we acquired a $50 million medical building in Wichita that's 100% leased to HCA. The price represents a 6.1% initial cash cap rate. This was an off-market acquisition and expands our existing presence in the market. In June, we acquired a $16 million MOB located on the campus of HCA's Westside hospital in Fort Lauderdale. The initial cash cap rate is 5.5%. Again, this was an off-market acquisition and expand our existing presence on this campus.Looking forward, we have a strategic acquisition and development pipeline across our business segments. Against the backdrop of compressing cap rates, we remain focused on using our relationships to create opportunities not available to the broader market. We also continue to advance densification opportunities across all three of our business segments, which will be a source of growth for the next decade plus on land we already own. Finally, we're balancing acquisitions that are immediately accretive with value-creating development opportunities that naturally come with short-term earnings track. As a result, our acquisition pipeline is a mix of stabilized assets, lease-up properties and covered land plays. The blended initial yield will depend on the relative mix of opportunities that ultimately proceed.With that, I'll turn it to Pete.Peter A. Scott -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Scott. I'll start today with a review of our financial results, provide an update on our recent balance sheet activity and finish with a discussion of our 2021 guidance. Starting with our financial results. For the second quarter, we reported FFO as adjusted of $0.40 per share and blended same-store growth of 1.2%. Two notable same-store items. First, our 13 LCS operated CCRCs entered the quarterly same-store pool in the second quarter and accounted for 12% of the overall pool.Second, as Scott mentioned, our CCRCs were significantly impacted by the onetime CARES Act grant we received in the second quarter of 2020. Adjusting for CARES Act grants pro forma blended second quarter same-store growth across the portfolio was 7.6%. Until the LCS operated CCRCs enter the full year same-store pool in 2022, we believe our quarterly same-store results are more reflective of how our overall portfolio is performing. Last item within financial results. On July 29, our Board declared a dividend of $0.30 per share representing an AFFO payout ratio of approximately 86% for the second quarter.Turning to our balance sheet. Since our last earnings call, we continue to improve upon our fortress balance sheet. We completed the repayment of $550 million of bonds maturing in 2025. We issued $450 million of five-year green bond at a rate of 1.35%. We completed the repayment of our $250 million term loan maturing in 2024 and we received $246 million of seller financing early repayments.As a result of our balance sheet activity, we ended the quarter with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 4.6 times, providing us with dry powder for acquisitions. We have no significant debt maturities until February 2025 and we have ample open maturity slots in 2028, 2032 and beyond, allowing us to fund near-term transactions with five-year and 10-year debt. Turning to our guidance. We are increasing our guidance as follows: FFO's adjusted revised from $1.53 to $1.61 per share; two $1.55 to $1.61 per share, an increase of $0.01 at the midpoint. Blended same-store NOI growth, revised from 1.75% to 3.25% to 2.25% to 3.75%, an increase of 50 basis points at the midpoint.Let me spend a minute level-setting all the major components of our revised guidance. Starting with FFO, as adjusted. We have had a strong start to the year, with $0.80 per share FFO as adjusted, inclusive of $0.01 of non-recurring CARES Act grants. As a result, we have increased the midpoint of guidance by $0.03 per share compared to our original 2021 guidance. While we are trending toward the higher end of our revised guidance range, we feel it is prudent to maintain some conservatism, given the uncertain market conditions.Turning to acquisitions. We have increased the low end of our acquisition guidance to $800 million, an increase of $100 million to account for our recent closed transaction. We will update our guidance further as transactions firm up and we get a better sense for timing and pricing. As a reminder, we intend to fund acquisitions with debt until we hit our target leverage of 5.5 times. Turning to CCRC. We are reaffirming the $70 million to $90 million NOI range for the LCS CCRCs. While performance has been strong year-to-date, we have determined it is too early to adjust guidance, given the uncertainty of the COVID Delta variant and increased labor costs. One last item on CARES Act grants. We have reduced our guidance for CARES Act grants from $9 million to $6 million, which represent all the grants we have received year-to-date. Any additional CARES Act funding we could potentially receive for the balance of the year would be upside to guidance.With that, operator, let's open the line for Q&A.