  OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Priscilla, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the KLA Corporation March quarter 2021 earnings conference call and webcast. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the call over to Kevin Kessel, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Kevin Kessel -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Priscilla, and welcome to KLA's fiscal Q3 2021 quarterly earnings call to discuss the results of our March quarter and the outlook for the June quarter. With me today is Rick Wallace, our chief executive officer; and Bren Higgins, our chief financial officer. During today's call, we will discuss quarterly results for the period ended March 31st, 2021, that we released this afternoon after the market close in the form of a press release, shareholder letter, and slide deck. All are available on the KLA IR section of our website. Today's discussion is presented on a non-GAAP financial basis unless otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is in today's earnings materials posted on our website. During today's call, whenever we make references to a year, we are referring to the calendar year. Our IR website also contains future investor events, as well as, presentations, corporate governance information and links to our SEC filings, including the most recent annual report and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q.Our comments today are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the risk factors disclosed in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements, including those that we make on the call today, are also subject to those risks and KLA cannot guarantee those forward-looking statements will come true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in our forward-looking statements. I'd like to now turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Rick Wallace. Rick? 

 



Rick Wallace -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Kevin, and thank you for joining KLA's earnings call today. KLA's March quarter results demonstrate continued momentum in our business. We delivered strong 27% year-over-year revenue growth. Non-GAAP gross and operating profit rose 30% and 48% year over year, respectively and free cash flow grew 47% to a record level. We accomplished these by executing our strategic vision amid a dynamic business environment. Year-to-date, we've seen a sharp increase in business levels across each of our major markets. This is primarily due to secular demand trends driving semiconductor industry growth across a broad range of markets and applications such as 5G and cloud computing. Our customers are increasing their strategic capex investment to address these growth markets while continuing investment in leading-edge R&D efforts. Against this backdrop of strong demand, we continue to navigate evolving customer requirements and dynamic supply chain challenges. Still, KLA has not missed a beat and continues operating at an exceptionally high level, delivering on our commitments, staying focused on creating value for our partners, customers, and shareholders. We would be remiss if we did not mention that achieving these results would be impossible without the extraordinary contributions of our talented global teams who always rise to the challenges of meeting our customers' needs in an increasingly complex global business environment. Three key things enabled KLA's record results and momentum.

 



 One, successful innovation and market leadership. Two, the resourcefulness and talent of our global workforce. And three, the strength and resiliency of the KLA operating model. Before we discuss those further, let me begin by touching on how we see the industry demand environment now. Strong secular demand trends continue to shape multiple markets and are fueled by the increasing digitization of end markets and industries. In addition, there's a heightened focus on the strategic nature of our customers' investments around both leading edge development, optimizing facility utilization, and regionalization. As a result, our WFE forecast has improved, even further from January, reflecting the strength of demand we're experiencing over the past couple of months, with momentum continuing into calendar 2022. And in this environment, KLA is experiencing a sharp increase in customer demand for systems and support for 2021 deliveries and our expectations for KLA revenue growth have increased from our initial assessment in January. This momentum in customer investment is happening against a backdrop where process control intensity maintains its momentum and KLA continues to drive market leadership at levels approximately 4 times the nearest competitor. Propelled by the upside we're experiencing in the underlying WFE markets, KLA market leadership, increasing long-term process control intensity, our broader reach into electronics ecosystem and the contributions of our large and growing services business. KLA is on track to achieve our 2023 financial targets well ahead of our original expectations. KLA's market leadership results from the ongoing successful execution of the company's customer-focused strategy which is based on investing a high level of R&D to drive differentiation with the unique portfolio of products, technologies, and strategies that address the most critical process control market challenges. We're pleased to continue to see the success of our efforts being validated by our customers' purchasing decisions. Here are some recent success stories to illustrate the point. The most recently published Gartner data shows that in 2020, the total optical inspection market grew at a rate double that of the growth rate of the overall WFE market to approximately $1.9 billion, with KLA maintaining our strong market leadership and 83% share of this critical market for process control. Many already know that KLA is participating in the automotive electronics through our semiconductor packaging and PCB product lines. We're excited by near-term plans to launch new versions of our process control products tailored for the automotive industry. This quarter, expect to hear more about how KLA has positioned our wafer inspection portfolio to help customers drive higher reliability, quality, and yield in automotive applications in both 200-millimeter and 300-millimeter production which will help address some of the reported automotive semiconductor shortages going forward. Calendar year 2021 is positioned to be the 6th consecutive year of revenue growth for KLA, demonstrating strong through-cycle growth, the success of our diversification strategies, and our market leadership in process control, and a large and growing contribution from our services business. Let's briefly cover the top five highlights from the March quarter results. First, we saw continued strength and breadth in foundry/logic demand in the quarter. As expected, memory demand also grew, as memory customers planned for growth in equipment investment in 2021 to meet improving end demand. We expect higher business levels across a broader set of customers in the March quarter, with demand momentum continuing throughout 2021 across major end markets. The strength in demand we're seeing reflects KLA's essential role in supporting our customers' drive to innovate and continue to invest in future technology nodes. Second, Gartner's recent market share report for 2020 sized KLA's share of process control over 53% for the year. KLA's market share in process control has maintained a steady growth trajectory over the past 10 years. Highlights of the 2020 report show KLA continuing to strengthen our core franchise in optical inspection and strong momentum against e-beam inspection and optical metrology. Increasing investment in leading-edge foundry/logic accelerated adoption of the EUV continues to be major factors driving equipment spending. KLA's market leadership once again demonstrates the success of our portfolio approach to solving complex customer requirements at the leading edge. Third, our services revenue was $428 million in the March quarter or 24% of total sales, with over 75% of services revenue in our semiconductor process control segment, resulting from recurring contract agreements. Services is on track for another strong double-digit growth year, driven by our growing installed base, higher utilization rate, and increasing expansion of service opportunities in the trailing edge and the EPC group. Our semi-process control service business revenue continues to grow faster than the rate of the installed base, growing approximately 2.8 times faster over the last five years. Fourth, this was another growth quarter for our Electronics, Packaging, and Components or EPC group, highlighted by record quarterly bookings for the semiconductor -- the specialty semiconductor business. Growth was driven by automotive, 5G, wireless connectivity and advanced packaging applications across various end markets. With EPC, KLA is now providing a more comprehensive and broader product portfolio across fast growing new markets in the electronics value chain such as RF, automotive semiconductors and advanced packaging. As it relates to EPC's opportunities in advanced packaging markets, KLA is strengthening our engagement with the top five semiconductor market leaders in packaging and we're expanding our reach with OSATs. KLA is ramping our investment in advanced packaging market to drive adoption of new technologies in this exciting growth market in addition to new inspection products for high level production and assembly. Finally, in keeping with our commitment to deliver strong and predictable capital returns to our shareholders in the March quarter, we repurchased $273 million of our common stock and paid $139 million in dividends for a total capital return of $412 million or 71% of free cash flow of $585 million which was also a record. Last July, KLA's board of directors authorized the 11th consecutive annual dividend increase to a yearly run rate of $3.60 per share. Since its inception in 2006, KLA's dividend payout has grown at a CAGR of approximately 15%. We believe KLA's track record of delivering strong capital returns is a key component of the KLA investment thesis and offers predictable and compelling value creation for our shareholders. Before Bren gets into greater details of our financial highlights, let me recap. KLA's March 2021 results demonstrate the critical nature of KLA's products and services and enabling the digital transformation of our lives, the resiliency of the KLA operating model, and our commitment to productive capital allocation. KLA is exceptionally well-positioned at the forefront of technology innovation with a comprehensive portfolio of products to meet demanding customer requirements, balancing sensitivity and throughput. Semiconductor and electronics landscape is constantly changing. We're seeing broadening customer interest, driven by more technology innovation than ever before at the leading edge. We believe there are multiple secular factors driving industry demand, and KLA will continue to benefit from and position us to exceed our 2023 financial targets, reach them earlier than anticipated. At the same time, our strategy of driving diversified growth with strong long-term operating leverage should provide robust cash flow generation and consistent capital returns to our shareholders. And with that, I'll pass the call over to Bren.Bren Higgins -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Rick. Results this quarter highlighted the soundness and strength of our ongoing strategies. We continue to demonstrate our ability to meet customer needs and expand our market leadership while growing operating profits, generating record free cash flow, and maintaining our long-term strategy of productive capital allocation. Total revenue in the March quarter was $1.8 billion at the top of the guided range. Non-GAAP gross margin was 62.9%, above the midpoint of the guided range, as stronger revenue and favorable product mix drove upside in the quarter. Non-GAAP EPS was $3.85 at the upper end of the guided range. GAAP EPS was $3.66. Non-GAAP total operating expenses were $407 million, including $239 million of R&D expense and $168 million of SG&A. At KLA, technical application support for our customers is included in SG&A and was $42 million in the quarter. The combination of R&D expense and technical applications represents about 70% of total operating expenses. Non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of revenue was very strong at 40.4%. Given higher revenue expectations for the remaining three quarters of 2021, product development requirements, particularly, in programs supporting next-generation reticle inspection capabilities, regionalization of additional customer engagement resources, and increased investment in our infrastructure globally, particularly, in expanding our manufacturing footprint and completing our new HQ2 in Ann Arbor, Michigan, we expect operating expenses to be approximately $412 million in the June quarter. We are budgeting quarterly operating expenses to increase sequentially $3 million to $5 million a quarter over the near-term horizon. Given top-line expectations for 2021 and fueled by double-digit growth over the past two years, we expect that the business will continue to outperform our target operating model, both in terms of overall profitability and operating margin leverage. Non-GAAP net income was $598 million, GAAP net income was $567 million, cash flow from operations was $646 million, and free cash flow was $585 million. This resulted in a free cash flow conversion of nearly 100% and a very healthy free cash flow margin of over 32%. Our segment revenue was strong in the quarter, driven by growth in our semiconductor process control business. The EPC group delivered results mostly in line with our model heading into the quarter. Revenue for the semiconductor process control segment, including its associated service business was $1.51 billion, a sequential quarterly increase of 9%, and up 28% compared with March of last year. The approximate semiconductor customer mix was as follows: foundry/logic was strong as expected at 69% and memory was 31%. In memory, the business was split roughly 55% NAND and 45% DRAM. Revenue for the specialty semiconductor process segment in March was $92 million, up 1% sequentially and up 8% over the prior year. Demand in this segment was driven by growth in RF, power and advanced packaging. PCB, display, and component inspection revenue was $205 million, up 14% sequentially and up 28% year over year, with mobility markets driving strength in advanced PCB and finished component inspection. Revenue by major product category and region are both broken out in the shareholder letter in slides. From a balance sheet perspective, KLA ended the quarter with $2.4 billion in total cash, total debt of $3.4 billion, and a flexible and attractive bond maturity profile supported by strong investment-grade ratings from all three agencies. In terms of cash flow and capital returns, Rick already covered the highlights. We believe our track record of delivering strong capital returns is a key component of the KLA investment thesis and offers predictable and compelling value creation for our shareholders. While circumstances can change, our current expectation is that our capital returns profile for calendar '21 will exceed 85% of the expected free cash flow. As it relates to guidance, our overall semiconductor demand and WFE outlook has expanded further from our view in January, where we characterized the WFE market to grow in the low teens, plus or minus a few points. We are revising up our view for the WFE market to grow on a percentage basis in the low to mid 20s, with a bias to the upside in calendar '21 from approximately $61 billion in 2020, reflecting the strengthening of demand we have experienced over the past couple of months across all segments. Also, at earnings in January, we provided a high-level outlook of business levels being roughly flat quarter to quarter for calendar year '21. As we look ahead, based on the strength of our current backlog, sales funnel visibility over the next couple of quarters, along with expected product lead times, we are encouraged by the sustainability of our current demand profile for the year. As a result, we would expect the company revenue to continue to improve sequentially quarter to quarter throughout the remainder of the calendar year, with the second half growing versus the first half as more KLA manufacturing capacity comes online to support this robust customer demand environment. This growth is fueled principally by our semiconductor process control business. This business is positioned well in terms of expected performance in 2021 relative to the overall WFE market. Our June quarter guidance is as follows: total revenue is expected to be in a range of $1.855 billion, plus or minus $100 million, foundry/logic is forecasted to be about 68%, and memory is expected to be approximately 32% of semi process control systems revenue to semiconductor customers. Within memory, DRAM is expected to be about 60% of the segment mix. We forecast non-GAAP gross margin to be in a range of 61% to 63%, as product mix expectations normalize in the June quarter. Based on increased revenue volume and product mix expectations for 2021, we are now modeling gross margin to be between 62% and 62.5% for the calendar year. While in any given quarter the mix of our business will affect our gross margin results, the structural trends, both in terms of product cost and product positioning, remain compelling in our sustainable tailwinds going forward. Other model assumptions include non-GAAP operating expenses of approximately $412 million, interest, and other expense of approximately $40 million and an effective tax rate of approximately 13.5%. Finally, GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in a range of $3.20 to $4.08 and non-GAAP diluted EPS in a range of $3.47 to $4.35. The EPS guidance is based on a fully diluted share count of approximately 154.5 million shares. In closing, the industry dynamics driving semiconductors and investments in WFE remain compelling with solid demand across end markets and at multiple technology nodes. We are encouraged by the strength of the leading indicators of our business and our customers' multiyear plans for continued investment. KLA is executing well and we have continued confidence that we are on track to both exceed our 2023 financial targets and achieve it sooner than anticipated on the strength of higher industry demand. The KLA operating model positions us well to outperform and guides our strategic objectives. These objectives fuel our growth, operational excellence, and differentiation across an increasingly diverse product and service offering. They also underpin our sustained technology leadership, deep competitive moat, strong track record of free cash flow generation, and capital returns to shareholders. With that, I'll now turn the call back over to Kevin to begin the Q&A. Kevin?Kevin Kessel -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Bren. Priscilla, we're ready to queue for questions. 