  OperatorGood day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the LKQ Corporation's fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Joe Boutross, vice president of investor relations for LKQ Corporation. Please go ahead.Joe Boutross -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to LKQ's fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. With us today are Nick Zarcone, LKQ's president and chief executive officer; and Varun Laroyia, executive vice president and chief financial officer. Please refer to the LKQ website at lkqcorp.com for our earnings release issued this morning, as well as the accompanying slide presentation for this call. Now, let me quickly cover the safe harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking. These include statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, hopes, intentions or strategies. Actual events or results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC. During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release and slide presentation. Hopefully, everyone has had a chance to look at our 8-K, which we filed with the SEC earlier today. And as normal, we are planning to file our 10-K in the coming days. And with that, I am happy to turn the call over to our CEO, Nick Zarcone. Nick Zarcone -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Joe, and good morning to everybody on the call. This morning, I will provide some high-level comments related to our performance in the quarter and full year 2021, and then Varun will dive into the financial details and discuss our 2022 outlook before I come back with a few closing remarks. Before I begin, on behalf of everyone at LKQ, I again want to express our sincere thanks to all those on the front lines who are working hard to keep our communities and our citizens safe and healthy. I also extend condolences to all those who have suffered a personal loss during this unfortunate pandemic. It seems like everyone knows someone who has been seriously impacted by COVID. While we've made great strides across the globe combating the pandemic, it is still a harsh reality that we all have to confront in our daily lives. As most of you know, LKQ spent two decades consolidating fragmented markets into centralized businesses, and in the process, we created the largest and best-in-class operators in each of our major markets. Then in 2019, we pivoted our strategy to focus on operational excellence. Some folks may have been skeptical about this pivot, but they may not have had a true understanding of our culture, a culture that is centered on outcomes, not obstacles; a culture that is agile and nimble, and a culture that is LKQ proud. It is with great pride that I can say our teams across all of our segments embraced and delivered on our operational excellence initiatives throughout all of 2021. Before I move on to the fourth quarter results, let me highlight just a few of the milestones we achieved in 2021. We had record corporatewide revenue and profitability. North America EBITDA and EBITDA margins reached their highest full year level in the history of the company. Europe had full year double-digit EBITDA margins for the first time in over five years and reached the upper end of the expectations we set forth a year ago, and there was more runway ahead, especially realized record full year revenue and EBITDA margins. We generated our second year of free cash flow of over $1 billion. We maintained net leverage well below our target of two times. We achieved an investment-grade rating from Fitch. We purchased 17.2 million shares of stock for a total of $877 million. We issued the first dividend in the history of the company, and we issued our inaugural corporate sustainability report and received an ESG rating of AA from MSCI, which puts LKQ in the top 19% of our index group. These achievements are the result of the combined effort of each individual at LKQ. And for that, I extend a great big thank you to my entire organization. Now, on to the quarter. Revenue in the fourth quarter of 2021 was $3.2 billion, an increase of 7.9% as compared to the $3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2020. For the fourth quarter, parts and services organic revenue increased 6.6% on a reported basis and 7.3% on a per day basis. While the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures increased revenue 1.7% and foreign exchange rates decreased revenue 0.8% for total parts and services revenue increase of 7.5%. Net income for the fourth quarter of 2021 was $236 million as compared to $180 million for the same period of last year, an increase of 30.6%. Diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter was $0.81 compared to $0.59 for the same period of 2020, an increase of 37.3%. On an adjusted basis, net income in the fourth quarter was $254 million compared to $212 million in the same period of last year, a 20% increase. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter was $0.87 as compared to $0.69 for the same period of 2020, a 26.1% increase. Net income for the full year of 2021 was $1.1 billion as compared to $639 million for 2020, an increase of 70.7%. Diluted earnings per share for the full year of 2021 was $3.66 as compared to $2.09 for 2020, an increase of 75.1%. On an adjusted basis, net income for the full year of 2021 was $1.2 billion compared to $777 million last year, a 51.8% increase. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the full year 2021 was $3.96 as compared to $2.55 for 2020, a 55.3% increase. These net income numbers represent a tremendous achievement for the company as we achieved net income in excess of $1 billion in 2021 for the first time in our history. Let's turn to some of the quarterly segment highlights. As you will note from slide six, organic revenue for parts and services in the quarter for our North American segment increased 8.3% on a reported basis and 9.9% on a per day basis compared to the fourth quarter of 2020. When comparing to pre-pandemic levels, organic revenue for parts and services for our North American segment in Q4 of 2021 declined around 5% on a per day basis relative to 2019 levels. Industry data indicates repairable claims declined mid-teens relative to 2019. So it was another quarter of outperformance for our North American operations. Our salvage business and the growth in our major mechanical product groups continued its solid performance during the quarter. Although fill rates for aftermarket collision parts have been challenged, we are again witnessing a positive offset from our quote conversion rates on salvage parts. Given the supply chain disruptions, it's no surprise that our aftermarket parts business lagged the results of our recycling and remanufacturing businesses. In 2021, our North America salvage operations continued its leadership as the largest recycler of vehicles by processing over 783,000 vehicles, resulting in, among other things, the recycling of 3.9 million gallons of fuel, 2.2 million gallons of waste oil, 2.1 million tires, 740,000 batteries and 1.2 million tons of scrap metal. Moving to our European segment. Organic revenue for parts and services increased 5.7% on a reported basis and 5.4% on a per day basis in the quarter. Demand trends strengthened sequentially in the fourth quarter across all of our European regions. Most of our regional operations experienced similar levels of revenue growth with standout performance from our forest business in the Benelux region and solid contributions from Germany, the U.K., and Central and Eastern Europe. On a full year basis, these businesses performed quite well, both on revenue and profitability. Italy, again, lagged relative to our other markets. Now, let's move on to our specialty segment. During Q4, specialty reported organic revenue growth of 5.7% on a reported basis and 7.3% on a per day basis. Considering the tough comparison to an exceptionally strong 2020, this organic growth exceeded our expectations and reflected a tremendous effort by our specialty team. A few specialty operational highlights would include the fact that due to the specialty segments, Department of Transportation safety scores and positive inspection history, the team is now eligible to participate in the department's prepass program. This program allows our drivers to bypass weigh stations in certain ports of entry. The benefits of this program will include faster travel time to the docks, less idling time and higher driver retention. Importantly, this program highlights that health and safety of our employees, and our other stakeholders is paramount within our organization. Secondly, during the quarter, our specialty segment moved their industry-leading product catalog to a digital format. At the peak, specialty printed over 300,000 copies of these catalogs each consisting of over 1,000 pages, so this represents a savings of 300 million printed pages. This green focus and shift to a digital catalog is another example of how our teams across all segments are driving our environmental leadership into all facets of the business. Looking ahead, we expect solid revenue growth across all three of our segments in 2022 as we creep back to pre-pandemic volumes, get some relief from the aftermarket supply chain in the back half of the year and utilize strategic pricing initiatives. Specifically, we are still running behind 2019 revenue in North America, but we are closing the gap and expect to approach pre-pandemic revenue levels as we exit 2022. Europe is back to pre-pandemic revenue levels, and we look forward to continuing the positive momentum from Q4 as we move forward in 2022. And Specialty is obviously already running well ahead of pre-pandemic revenue levels. On the corporate development front, as mentioned in our last call, in the first week of October, we completed the acquisition of Hamu, one of the leading independent car parts wholesalers in the Netherlands, and SeaWide Marine Distribution, a nationwide electronics wholesale distributor that supplies electrical and electronic products for the marine, outdoor and personal navigation markets. During the fourth quarter, we continued the build-out of our ESG program by implementing various social initiatives. In December, the company launched our LKQ Cares Holiday Vote, a unique program in which all employees had a voice in determining how LKQ's donations are allocated. With this program, LKQ donated funds to 10 separate nonprofit organizations across the globe during the holiday period. Also, in December, the LKQ Community Foundation donated monies to assess various nonprofits with relief and recovery efforts from the long track tornado that produce severe catastrophic damage in several states in numerous communities. Let's now turn to the inflationary environment, a key item of interest for most listeners on this call. Inflation was a harsh reality across each of our segments, especially during the fourth quarter when inflation climbed to a 39-year high in December. The rise in prices is fairly straightforward, a combination of unprecedented supply chain and labor disruptions, which choke output in monetary and fiscal stimulus, which accelerated demand. Global disruptions of this size and philosophy do not reset overnight, and we suspect it will continue to be a headwind throughout 2022, but make no mistake, we are not resting and waiting for this to reset. Our segment teams have implemented processes with our supplier and customer partners to deal with price changes in a more planned and structured way, ultimately staying ahead of the inflationary trends. Of course, the success of these ongoing processes will depend on the timing of the recovery in the supply chain, including some relief in ocean freight cost. Related to labor, by the end of December 2021, there were 11 million job openings in the United States. Simply stated, there is a battle to hire and retain talent at all levels of the organization, and prospective hires clearly have leverage, and that comes at a cost. Our North American operations have over 1,000 open positions, which represents roughly a 6% vacancy rate. In 2021, we witnessed 5% to 7% net increase in wages for our business in North America. We are working diligently to develop creative ways to recruit potential candidates beyond just compensation. To expand the recruiting efforts, we are building partnerships that focus on the skills needed for the open positions and exploring how we can attract talent. In 2021, we invested in the benefit plans provided to our employees, including, but not limited to, enhancements to our core behavioral health and paid parental leave programs. Our European operations are facing the same challenges and are currently running at a 3.5% vacancy rate with wages increasing between 3% and 5% in 2021. Focusing on retention and recruiting as well at the end of the fourth quarter, our Europe team launched a comprehensive employee engagement survey with WorkBuzz to further understand the employee experience and how we can be their employer of choice. The team invested in development for their leadership team and mental well-being training for all colleagues across Europe. The labor impact is an industrywide issue. In the fourth quarter, the national average scheduling backlog for collision repair shops was 3.4 weeks versus pre-pandemic levels of just 1.7 weeks. The doubling of the backlog is predominantly due to technician shortages and to a lesser extent, parts availability. Based on the milestones we achieved throughout 2021, clearly, our teams have been judicious with quickly driving change, and I am confident we will operate with the same level of vigor to combat the headwinds we face with the supply chain and labor and freight costs, all against the backdrop of the ongoing pandemic. Lastly, before I turn the discussion over to Varun, who will run through the details of the segment results and discuss our outlook for 2022, I am pleased to announce that on February 15, 2022, our board of directors approved our second quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 a share payable on March 24, 2022, to all stockholders of record at the close of business on March 3, 2022. And with that, I will turn it over to Varun.Varun Laroyia -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Nick, and good morning to everyone joining us today. Before I go into details on the fourth quarter, I'd like to spend a moment to reflect on the last two years operating in the pandemic. Since the world was turned upside down in March of 2020, we leveraged LKQ's core strengths, namely our best-in-class inventory availability and service reliability, extensive distribution network, a rock-solid balance sheet and most importantly, our people to be successful in adverse conditions. We accelerated our operational excellence program to make the business more resilient and have delivered record annual results yet again while creating a strong position for the company to participate in the demand recovery. The performance of the past three years since the pivot to operational excellence and in 2021, in particular, highlights the benefits of our operating initiatives. By many measures, 2021 was an outstanding year. In terms of profitability, we generated record full year adjusted diluted earnings per share of $3.96, an increase of 55% compared to 2020, our previous high watermark. During the September 2020 investor day, I set the expectation that LKQ aimed to be a double-digit EPS compounder with about half coming from organic growth and productivity and the rest from judicious capital allocation. With our 2021 results, we surpassed this expectation and picked up about three years of EPS growth in a single year. We have sustained the momentum built in recent years around cash flow generation with free cash flow of $1.1 billion in 2021 and successfully reset the business model to operate at this higher level going forward. At a conversion ratio of 60% of EBITDA, we are delivering free cash flow in line with our long-term expectation. Generating significant and sustainable free cash flow has accelerated various capital allocation options, including our share repurchase program maintaining investment-grade credit metrics and initiating a regular quarterly dividend. With a focus on operational excellence, including integrating our acquisitions and converting profit to cash, we have made significant progress in improving our return on invested capital. By our internal measure of ROIC, which essentially ignores the amortization of intangibles, we exceeded 15% in 2021 after running at approximately 10% just a few years ago. All of this reflects our commitment to delivering long-term value to our various stakeholders. I'd also like to take this opportunity to extend my sincere thanks to the entire LKQ team for their dedication and hard work. It takes all 45,000 of us rowing in the same direction to deliver such outcomes. We have raised the bar on what LKQ can be, and we have more to come. Now, shifting to the fourth quarter. Our fourth quarter results reflect a solid finish to the year with improving revenue, net income and earnings per share year over year despite, as expected, the negative impact of metals, challenges to inflation, the global supply chain and the Omicron variant. Gross margin remained a year-over-year benefit with improvement in Europe, offsetting metals driven softness in North America margins. Unlike the first three quarters of 2021, commodity prices had a negative effect on margins in the fourth quarter. We estimate that scrap steel and precious metal prices produce year-over-year decreases of approximately $16 million in segment EBITDA and $0.04 in adjusted EPS in the fourth quarter. In 2020, we benefited from significant sequential increases in scrap steel and precious metal prices during the fourth quarter, while 2021 showed roughly flat to declining sequential changes. Overhead expenses as a percentage of revenue increased 130 basis points year over year with over half driven by personnel costs. The tight labor market has pushed wages higher in many of our markets. Additionally, strong performance across all three segments contributed to increased levels of incentive compensation in 2021, which, of course, resets with new targets for 2022. I'll now turn to segment operating results. Starting on slide No. 10, North America produced an EBITDA margin of 15.1% for the quarter. Adjusted gross margin was unfavorable by 50 basis points, primarily related to the metals effect, which had a negative 210 basis point effect on gross margin in the fourth quarter. The benefits from ongoing margin initiatives in the wholesale business and improved pricing partially offset the metals impact. Segment overhead expenses increased by 230 basis points, with the largest change going to personnel expenses. Roughly half of the 140-basis point increase in personnel expenses is attributable to higher incentive compensation with the remainder related to wages, temporary labor and medical costs. Higher freight and fuel costs drove a further 80 basis point increase in overhead expenses. With some of the overhead leverage benefit from higher revenue dollars, offsetting a portion of the gross margin impact, metals had a negative 170 basis points effect on the reported 15.1% segment EBITDA margin. This result is consistent with our expectations for a mid- to high 16% baseline without the metals impact. For the full year, the reported North America segment EBITDA margin of 18.3% benefited by roughly 100 basis points from metals prices mostly in the first half of the year. Moving to Europe. Europe continued its strong performance with an 8.9% EBITDA margin, the highest fourth quarter figure since 2015 and finished the full year with 10.2%. As you can see on slide 11, gross margin was the primary driver of the fourth quarter improvement with better net pricing. We are pleased with Europe's progress in delivering a double-digit full year segment EBITDA margin, and we are confident that there's further opportunity ahead. Moving to slide 12. Specialty held gross margin roughly flat despite inflationary pressures in the segment's one operations and a negative mix effect from the SeaWide acquisition with offsetting benefits in net pricing. Operating expenses increased by 80 basis points, driven mostly by personnel expenses, higher wages, medical costs and incentive compensation, which, of course, some of it will be reset to reflect 2022 targets. The specialty team made great progress on the SeaWide integration plan during the fourth quarter by moving all inventory into existing facilities in December and subsequently has exited three of the four acquired facilities in January, which, of course, will create cost savings going forward. Income taxes in the fourth quarter of 2021 included discrete benefits of $0.07, primarily related to the reversal of certain valuation allowances and true ups related to prior year tax return filings. There was a benefit of $0.025, reflecting the change in estimate of our effective tax rate as we closed out our 2021 financials. While the discrete benefits in the 2021 rate are nonrecurring, we expect to benefit from a lower effective tax rate going forward and have included 25.1% in our 2022 guidance assumptions. Shifting to liquidity and capital allocation. We have been foreshadowing a cash outflow for inventory whole year, as we've looked to rebuild our inventory levels in anticipation of demand recovery. The outflow has been delayed by supply chain issues, but we began to see some real progress in the fourth quarter. As you can see on slide 31, we were able to grow our inventory balances in all three segments in the fourth quarter, an opportunity which drove a higher-than-expected cash outflow of $182 million. While there are still some challenges getting aftermarket products to our locations, given the challenges with ocean freight and ongoing congestion at the ports here in North America, we saw robust activity at the auctions and grew our salvage inventory to support the strong growth in this category. We were also successful in increasing the inventory for our Specialty segment ahead of the key selling season with a number of shows that take place in the first quarter. We are confident that our inventory positions will enable each segment to continue to offer best-in-class availability and service relative to our competitors despite the ongoing supply chain challenges. Our capital spending for the quarter was higher than what we've seen in recent years. With a backdrop of inflation continuing for the foreseeable future, the increase was driven by strategic capital deployment during the quarter as we identified a series of opportunities mostly related to our salvage business in North America to invest in real estate. These investments, which include site expansions and the purchase of a new facility for our Denver operation will provide room for growth in our salvage business. Additionally, we identified other high-return investments related to vehicles, equipment and systems to undertake in the fourth quarter, given the long lead times with the ongoing supply chain disruptions. In total, the real estate and other strategic purchases totaled about $90 million for the quarter, which accounts for much of the growth in capital spending. Full year free cash flow, as I mentioned previously, was $1.1 billion, our second year in a row being above the $1 billion mark. At a 60% conversion ratio for free cash flow to EBITDA for the year, this was roughly $275 million above our original guidance flow of $800 million when we gave guidance for 2021 last February. Following our balanced capital allocation philosophy, we repurchased 5.3 million shares in the quarter for $297 million and issued our first quarterly dividend with a $73 million payment in December. We also acquired businesses in the fourth quarter, SeaWide in our specialty segment and a tuck-in business in the Benelux market for a total consideration of $57 million. Our net leverage ratio came in at 1.4 times EBITDA and interest coverage now exceeds 28 times compared to the credit facility requirements of four times and three times, respectively. We are well positioned with our credit metrics, which are consistent with an investment-grade profile, and we remain committed to achieving an investment-grade rating. As our earnings release of this morning indicated, the board has approved the quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share, which will be paid to stockholders on record as of March 3. I will wrap up my prepared comments with thoughts on our 2022. Over the past two years of living with the once-in-100-year health crisis, what has become clear is the resiliency of our end markets and our team's ability to deliver solid results utilizing the operational excellence toolkit. This, in effect, gives us the confidence to reinstate full year guidance, including organic revenue growth for the coming year. Our guidance assumes that, one, there are no significant negative developments related to the COVID-19 in our major markets; two, foreign exchange rates hold near recent levels for the remainder of the year. Three, scrap and precious metal prices trend lower than what we've currently seen in the month of February and an effective tax rate of 25.1%. So with that, we expect organic parts and services revenue growth of between 3% and 5% with higher growth rates in the second half of the year than the first half. With ongoing inflationary pressures exacerbated by the supply chain challenges, we remain confident in our ability to positively work through pricing changes as needed. Second, we are projecting full year adjusted diluted EPS in the range of $3.72 to $4.02 with a midpoint of $3.87. This is a decrease of $0.09 or 2% at the midpoint relative to the 2021 actual figure. Looking at slide No. 19, you can see how we get from the 2021 actual EPS to our 2022 expectation. We've been transparent about the commodities benefit on our 2021 results. And with lower prices anticipated for 2022, we will face a headwind of roughly $0.27 related to scrap steel and precious metal prices, predominantly in the self-service operating unit. The favorable discrete tax adjustments in 2021 will not reoccur, which will lower EPS by a further $0.06. Additionally, lower average foreign exchange rates will have a $0.04 negative effect year-over-year, and we had a $0.03 pickup of fair value adjustments related to certain equity investments that we're not projecting to reoccur in 2022. Taking these factors into account, we're looking at a baseline EPS figure of $3.56. On a two-year stack, we remain well above our long-term growth expectations in 2022, and we expect annual growth rates to normalize in 2023. The operational excellence initiatives have created a significantly stronger and more resilient business, which we believe will support our ability to improve operating results despite the current inflationary environment and supply chain challenges. And finally, our balance sheet is solid. We continue to generate outstanding free cash flow through strong profitability and judicious use of trade working capital. We are projecting to generate free cash flow of at least $1 billion in 2022 as we sustain a healthy conversion of EBITDA to free cash flow. Before I turn it back to Nick, I want to inform everyone that we are contemplating breaking out the self-service operating unit as a separate reportable segment in 2022. While we are not planning any changes in how self-service is operated or how it interacts with the wholesale business, we would like to provide investors even greater transparency into the North America business, especially as it relates to the metals impact. We will provide further information on the decision ahead of our first quarter earnings call in late April. Thanks for your time this morning. And with that, I'll turn the call back to Nick for his closing comments.Nick Zarcone -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Varun. In closing, 2021 was a banner year for LKQ, and I could not be prouder of the collective efforts of my global teams. Let me restate our key strategic pillars which continue to be central to our culture and objectives as we've entered 2022. First, we will continue to allocate our businesses and simplify our operating model. Second, we will continue to focus on profitable revenue growth and sustainable margin expansion. Third, we will continue to drive high levels of cash flow which in turn will give us the flexibility to maintain a balanced capital allocation strategy. And last but not least, we will continue to invest in our future. With these pillars in place, coupled with our industry-leading teams, we are well positioned to face the challenges in the first half of the year, and we'll continue to deliver positive year-over-year operating results for our shareholders. As always, I want to thank the over 45,000 people who work at LKQ for all they do to advance our business each and every day. They are truly our greatest asset. And with that, operator, we are now ready to open the call for questions. 