
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to Raymond James Financials' Second Quarter Fiscal 2021 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Now I would like to turn over to Kristie Waugh, Vice President of Investor Relations at Raymond James Financial.Kristina Waugh -- Vice President of Investor RelationsGood morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us. We appreciate your time and interest in Raymond James Financial. With us on the the call today are Paul Reilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Shoukry, Chief Financial Officer. The presentation being reviewed this morning is available on Raymond James' Investor Relations website. Following the prepared remarks, the operator will open the line for questions. Please note, certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statement. These statements include but are not limited to information concerning future strategic objectives, business prospects, financial results, anticipated results of litigation and regulatory development, impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or general economic conditions. In addition, words such as believes, expects, could and would as well as any other statements that necessarily depends on future events are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Please note that there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider the risks described in our most recent Form 10-K, and subsequent Form 10-Q which are available on our Investor Relations website. During today's call, we will also use certain non-GAAP financial measures to provide information pertinent to our management's view of ongoing business performance. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures may be found in the schedules accompanying our press release and presentation. With that, I'll turn it over to Chairman and CEO, Paul Reilly. Paul?

 



Paul Reilly -- Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Kristie, and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us today. It has been a year since the financial markets bottomed and the Federal Reserve cut short term interest rates to near zero that move reduced our pre-tax run rate by 40%. The stock market has seen an incredible run since 2020, with the S&P 500 up 54% year-over-year.While that tailwind has certainly helped fuel our strong results, the records we generated during the quarter and first half of the fiscal year have also been driven by our unwavering commitment to providing excellent service to advisors and their clients during this difficult and unprecedented time. It's a testament to our advisors who have shepherded their clients through the pandemic and aware with all of our associates who've worked so hard to service our advisors and their clients. Our strong balance sheet and our ability to grow both in constructive and challenging market certainly, a year we will never forget on many levels.Starting on Slide 3, the fiscal second quarter was another record quarter. The firm reported record net revenues of $2.37 billion, which were up 15% over the prior year fiscal second quarter, and 7% over the preceding quarter. Record net income of $355 million or $2.51 per diluted share, increased 110% over net income in the year ago quarter, and 14% over the preceding quarter. Annualized return on equity for the quarter was 19%, and return on tangible common equity was 21.2%, an extremely impressive result, especially in this near zero rate environment and given our strong capital position.

 



Record quarterly revenues were primarily driven by higher asset management, and related administrative fees, investment banking revenues, and record brokerage revenues, which more than offset the negative impact of lower short term interest rates on both, the net interest income and RJBDP fees from third-party banks. Record quarterly net income was attributable to the record revenues, disciplined management of controllable expenses, the bank loan loss benefit of $32 million, reflecting improving economic conditions and subdued business development expenses given the lack of business travel and conferences.Moving to Slide 4, we ended the quarter with record total client assets under administration of $1.09 trillion, which are up 40% on a year-over-year basis, and 6% sequentially. We also achieved records for PCG assets and fee-based accounts of $568 billion a 7% sequential improvement, which will benefit the third quarter, and financial assets under management of a $178 billion.We ended the quarter with a record 8,327 financial advisors a net increase of 179 over the prior year's period and 94 over the preceding quarter. This represents a solid improvement over the prior quarter and reflects our strong retention and the continued strength of our recruiting pipelines across all of our affiliation options. Our recruiting momentum in the independent side of the business continues to be strong. On the employee side, as we mentioned last quarter, in response to the increased recruiting packages by competitors we enhanced our recruiting packages to be more competitive while also ensuring attractive returns to our shareholders.And while recruiting momentum in this business has increased greatly, employee advisor count is down slightly from the prior quarter, as improved recruiting was offset by a higher number of retirements where assets are typically retained at the front, as well as the smaller training class. However, the number of advisors scheduled to join is up significantly, not only in our employee channel, but across all of our affiliation options.

 



Looking at our recruiting results, over the prior four quarters financial advisors with approximately $285 million of trailing 12 months production, and nearly $44 billion of assets at their prior firms affiliated with Raymond James domestically. As for our net organic growth results In the Private Client Group, we generated domestic PCG net new assets of nearly $54 billion over the four quarters ending in March 31, 2021, representing more than a 7.5% of domestic PCG assets at the beginning of the period. And remember, this is net of client fees.And this trend has accelerated during the first half of the fiscal year closer to a 9% annualized rate. We are very pleased with our consistent organic growth especially, given the disruption associated with the COVID-19 pandemic during the year.Now, let's move to the segment results on Slide 5. The Private Client Group generated record quarterly net revenues of $1.65 billion and pre-tax income of a $192 million, and 11.7% pre-tax margin reflecting significant operating leverage despite being in a near zero rate environment. Quarterly net revenues grew 12% over the preceding quarter, predominantly driven by higher asset management and related administrative fees, reflecting higher assets and fee-based accounts, which will continue to be a tailwind in the third quarter.Higher brokerage revenues also contributed to the quarterly revenue growth. The Capital Markets segment generated quarterly net revenues of $433 million and pre-tax income of a $105 million, driven by record brokerage revenue, record equity underwriting and strong M&A revenues. Despite not topping the extraordinarily strong and record-breaking first quarter results, the results this quarter were very strong driven by broad-based strength across Global Equities, and Investment Banking and the fixed income businesses.The strong results reflect the significant investments we have made to strengthen our platform over the last 10 years, and we are continuing to make investments, including the recent acquisition of the consumer-focused M&A advisory firm Financo, which closed at the end of the quarter, and we welcome Financo to the Raymond James family.The Asset Management segment generated record net revenues of $209 million and record pre-tax income of $87 million. Record results were primarily due to growth of financial assets under management driven by equity market appreciation and net inflows into fee-based accounts in the Private Client Group. Carillon Tower Advisers also generated significant net inflows during the quarter.Lastly, Raymond James Bank generated quarterly net revenues of a $160 million and pre-tax income of a $111 million. Quarterly net revenues declined 24% compared to a year ago quarter primarily, due to the impact of lower short term interest rates. Sequentially, quarterly net revenues declined 4%, as higher asset balances were offset by the expected 8 basis points decline in the bank's net interest margin during the quarter, which was also largely attributable to the agency-backed securities portfolio.Pre-tax income growth was primarily due to the loan loss reserve release in the quarter compared to the provision for credit losses in both of the comparative periods. The credit quality of the bank's portfolio remains healthy, as Paul Shoukry will cover in more detail on his remarks.Looking at the fiscal year-to-date results on Slide 6, we generated record net revenues of $4.59 billion during the first 6 months of the fiscal 2021 up 13% over the same period. Record earnings per diluted share of $4.74 increased 53% compared to the first six months of fiscal 2020 primarily, due to the revenue growth, along with the loan loss reserve release, compared to the provision for credit losses in the comparative period.Moving to the fiscal year-to-date results on Slide 7, the Private Client Group, Capital Markets and Asset Management segments generated record net revenues and record pre-tax income during the first six months of the fiscal year. In fact, Capital Markets segments' pre-tax income for the first half of the fiscal year of $234 million actually exceeded the annual record of $225 million set in fiscal 2020. Again, these results reinforce the value of our diverse and complementary businesses.And now, for a more detailed review of the financial results, I'll turn the call over to Paul Shoukry. Paul?Paul Shoukry -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Paul. I'll begin with consolidated revenues on Slide 9. Record quarterly net revenues of $2.37 billion grew 15% year-over-year and 7% sequentially. As expected asset management fees grew 10% sequentially a bit lower than the 12% growth of fee-based assets during the preceding quarter primarily, due to too fewer billable days during the quarter.Private Client Group assets and fee-based accounts were up 7% during the fiscal second quarter, providing a tailwind for this line item for the third quarter of fiscal 2021. Consolidated brokerage revenues of $591 million grew 15% over the prior year and represents a record, driven by continued strength in institutional fixed income, as well as strong brokerage revenues in the Private Client Group, reflecting healthy client activity levels and higher asset values.Account and service fees of $159 million declined 8% year-over-year, almost entirely due to the decrease in RJBDP fees from third party banks, given lower short term interest rates, which I will discuss along with net interest income in more detail on the next 2 slides.The 10% sequential increase was largely attributable to higher asset balances and revenues from our recent acquisition of NWPS, most of which are reflected in the client account and other fees line in the PCG segment. Consolidated investment banking revenues of $242 million grew 64% year-over-year driven by strong M&A advisory revenues and record equity underwriting revenues. For the first half of the year investment banking revenues were 74% higher than the first half of fiscal 2020.Our investment banking pipelines remain strong, so we would be really pleased to finish the fiscal year averaging $200 million or better of investment banking revenues per quarter if market conditions remain conducive. Other revenues of $44 million are down 20% sequentially primarily due to lower private equity valuation gains during the quarter, partially offset by a strong quarter for the tax credit funds business.Moving to Slide 10, clients' domestic cash sweep balances, which are the primary source of funding for our interest earning assets and the balances with third-party banks that generate RJBDP fees ended with a quarter-end record of $62.8 billion, increasing 2% sequentially and representing 6.5% of domestic PCG client assets.As we continue to experience growing cash balances and less demand from third-party banks, more client cash is being held in the client interest program at the broker-dealer. You can see those balances grew to $9.5 billion and most of that growth has been used to purchase short term treasuries to meet the associated reserve requirement. Over time, that cash could be redeployed to our bank or third-party banks as capacity becomes available, which would hopefully earn a higher spread than we currently earn on short term treasuries.On Slide 11, the top chart displays our firmwide net interest income and RJ BDP fees from third-party banks on a combined basis, as these two items are directly impacted by change in short term interest rates.Related, we have updated the net interest margin or NIM chart on the bottom left portion of this slide to show NIM for both Raymond James Bank and the firm overall. The combined net interest income and BDP fees from third-party banks declined a bit sequentially largely due to fewer days during the quarter and NIM compression at the bank.As I mentioned on the last quarter's call, we would expect the bank's NIM to decline to around 1.9% over the next two quarters, as a new agency security purchases have lower yield in the run-off, but still represent a higher yield than we are earning from third-party banks or in short term treasuries.We also believe the average yield on RJBDP balances with third-party banks will remain close to 30 basis points for the rest of the fiscal year, but that could experience downward pressure in fiscal 2022 if banks demand for deposits doesn't improve from current levels.Moving to consolidated expenses on Slide 12, first, compensation expense, which is by far our largest expense. As expected, the compensation ratio increased sequentially from 67.5% to 69.5% largely due to the revenue mix shift toward higher compensable revenues in the PCG segment as financial advisor payouts, particularly on the independent contractor side of the business where they cover most of their overhead costs are typically much higher than the associated compensation in the other businesses. On a sequential basis, the compensation ratio was also impacted by the reset of payroll taxes that occurs in the first calendar quarter of each year.As we explained on the last call, given our current revenue mix and disciplined management of expenses, we are confident we can maintain a compensation ratio of 70% or better in this near-zero short term interest rate environment. Non-compensation expenses of $277 million decreased 32% compared to last year's second quarter and 14% sequentially primarily, driven by the $32 million bank loan loss benefit compared to provisions in the comparative periods.Business development expenses also remain subdued, but we expect those to increase over the next few quarters, as business travel picks back up in conferences and recognition trips resume. Overall, you can see, we have been really focus on managing controllable expenses while still investing in growth and ensuring high service levels for advisors and their clients.Slide 13, shows the pre-tax margin trend over the past five quarters. Pre-tax margin was 18.8% in fiscal second quarter of 2021, which was boosted by record revenues, the loan loss reserve release and subdued business development expenses. On the last call, we talked about generating a 14% to 15% pre-tax margin in this near-zero interest rate environment, but as we experienced during the first half of the fiscal year, there is meaningful upside to our margin when capital markets results are so strong.On Slide 14, at the end of the quarter total assets were $56.1 billion a 4% sequential increase. Reflecting the dynamic I explained earlier, with growth in client cash balances and associated segregated assets at the broker-dealer, as well as solid growth of corporate loans and security-based loans at Raymond James Bank.This balance sheet growth caused our Tier 1 leverage ratio to decrease to 12.2% which is still well above the regulatory requirements and our more conservative target of 10%. Liquidity remains very strong with $1.7 billion of cash at the parent at the end of the quarter, leaving us with plenty of flexibility to be defensive and opportunistic.During the quarter, we announced a debt offering which closed at the beginning of our fiscal third quarter, so it was not reflected in any of the second quarter's numbers. To take advantage of the low rate environment we raised $750 million of 30-year senior notes at 3.75% and utilize the proceeds and cash-on-hand to early redeem our next two senior note maturities effectively resulting in the same amount of senior notes outstanding, but with a much longer term stable funding profile.In the third quarter, we expect to record losses associated with the early extinguishment of these notes, which should total somewhere around $90 million. To help with comparability, we will break those losses out as a non-GAAP adjustment in the fiscal third quarter.Slide 15, provides a summary of our capital actions over the past five quarters. In the second quarter, we repurchased 500,000 shares for $60 million in average to price of approximately $120 per share. Over the first two quarters of the fiscal year we repurchased shares for $70 million and we remain committed to repurchasing a total of at least $200 million in fiscal 2021 to offset share-based compensation dilution. As of April 28, $680 million remain under the current share repurchase authorization.Lastly, on Slide 16, we provide key credit metrics for Raymond James Bank. The credit quality of the Bank's loan portfolio remains healthy with most trends continuing to improve. Non-performing assets remained low at 9 basis points of total assets. However, criticized loans increased due to a handful of credit downgrades within our REIT portfolio, particularly in the hospitality sector.While all of those credits we downgraded continue to perform, have large cash balances, and are starting to see improvement in their portfolios, we thought it was prudent to downgrade those credits. We had net charge-offs of $2 million in the quarter, which were related to opportunistic loan sales of $95 million at nearly 99% of par value.The bank loan loss benefit of $32 million was largely attributable to the macroeconomic inputs in the CECL model, which reflect an improved outlook particularly for the commercial real estate in residential mortgage loan portfolios.Due to reserve releases and the loan growth during the quarter, the bank loan allowance for credit losses, as a percentage of total loans declined from 1.71% to 1.50% at quarter-end. For the corporate loan portfolios, these allowances are higher at around 2.6%. We believe, we are adequately reserved but that could change if economic conditions deteriorate.Our strong balance sheet and long-term focus was recently cited as a strength by Fitch Ratings who launched its long-term senior unsecured rating for Raymond James Financial of A minus with a stable outlook.Now I'll turn the call back over to Paul Reilly, to discuss our outlook. Paul?Paul Reilly -- Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerThank you. So, overall a year into the global health pandemic with near-zero short term interest rates and during the quarter a lots of seasonal headwinds such as fewer billable days and the reset of payroll taxes, I could not be more pleased with our record top and bottom line results this quarter. As for our outlook, we remained well positioned entering the third fiscal quarter with records for all of our key business metrics, strong financial advisor recruiting activity and robust pipelines for investment banking.In the Private Client Group segment, while the recruiting environment is competitive and we face some challenges in a largely virtual environment our financial advisor recruiting pipeline is strong across all of our affiliation options and this segment is going to benefit by starting the fiscal third quarter with a 7% sequential increase in assets and fee-based accounts.The enhancements we made to the recruiting packages on the employee's side of the business have been very well received by prospective advisors and that pipeline has recovered nicely. Our prospective advisors across all of our affiliation options have continue to be attracted by our leading technology solutions. We have been known for our industry-leading position in mobile advisor tools and continue to make our technology platform more robust.We have also created easy-to-use systems that put all the information advisors' need right at their fingertips, so they can easily get the information they need to service their clients and have more time taking care of their clients in growing their business. As we continue to invest in our technology we're extremely excited about the new enhancements which will be coming out shortly.We have been measuring our client satisfaction for the past 10 years using net promoter scores. And I am proud to share that our client satisfaction has never been higher both in terms of satisfaction with Raymond James, as well as satisfaction with their advisors.In the Capital Markets segment, although, there is still economic uncertainty due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic the investment banking pipeline remains strong, and we expect fixed income brokerage results to remain elevated particularly in the Depository Client segment where we have a leadership position. In the Asset Management segment, results will be positively impacted by higher financial assets under management as long as the equity markets remain resilient.We were also pleased to see positive net flows for Carillon Tower Advisers in the quarter, despite the structural headwinds for active asset managers. We hope, that the one benefit of increased market volatility is that it reinforces the value of high quality active asset managers. And Raymond James Bank should continue to benefit from the attractive growth of securities-based loans and mortgages to the Private Client Group segment.On a year-over-year basis, the growth of the securities-based loans has been impressive around 38%. We'll also continue to be selective and deliberate in growing the corporate loan portfolio and the agency-backed securities portfolio as we have ample funding and capital to grow the balance sheet. We continue to focus on long-term growth and our priorities remain unchanged. Our top priority is organic growth, which is primarily driven by retaining and recruiting advisors in the Private Client Group.Additionally, we are continuing to add senior talent to all of our businesses. We also continue to actively pursue acquisitions, but we will still be deliberate, and only pursue transactions that are a great cultural and strategic fit and at prices that we can deliver attractive returns to our shareholders. We have been even more proactive in sourcing and evaluating opportunities.On Earth Day last week, we released our first corporate responsibility report. The report summarizes our foundational commitments to people, sustainability, community and governance and illustrates our long-standing approach to doing business, rooted in our values and brought to life through our people-driven culture. This report summarizes many of the inspiring things that our advisors and associates across the firm do to contribute to their communities and the things we do is affirm to healthy environment.We look forward to building on this inaugural report by maintaining transparency and sharing progress over time. With that operator can you please open the line for question?