
OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Nasdaq's Third Quarter 2021 Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your host today, Ed Ditmire, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Ed Ditmire -- Vice President, Head of Investor Relations

 



Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Nasdaq's third quarter 2021 financial results. On the line are Adena Friedman, our CEO; Ann Dennison, our CFO; John Zecca, our Chief Legal and Regulatory Officer, and other members of the management team. After prepared remarks, we'll open up the line to Q&A.The press release and presentation are on our website. We intend to use the website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and complying with disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD.I'd like to remind you that certain statements in this presentation and during Q&A may relate to future events and expectations, and as such, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from these projections. Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements is contained in our press release and periodic reports filed with the SEC.I'll now turn the call over to Adena.

 



Adena T. Friedman -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Ed, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us. My remarks today will focus on Nasdaq's third quarter 2021 performance, the progress we're making on our strategic repositioning, and updates on areas where we are making significant investments to address large opportunities. I'll also share brief remarks about the current operating environment before I turn the call over to Ann, who will provide further details about our results, as well as an update on our guidance, our capital deployment, and our corporate sustainability efforts before we move to Q&A.Let me begin by acknowledging the Nasdaq team's dedication to our broader mission as we made notable progress in the third quarter. Their hard work has been critical to our success in delivering strong results for our clients. Together, we will continue our journey to become the leading provider of technology, data analytics, insights, and marketplace excellence to the global capital markets and beyond.Now, turning to our financial results for the third quarter of 2021, Nasdaq delivered net revenues of $838 million, an increase of $123 million or 17% from the prior year period. Our growth was largely driven by 13% organic revenue growth in our Solutions segments, 14% organic growth in our Market Services business and contributions from our acquisition of Verafin. We continue to make notable progress across key secular growth opportunities as illustrated by total Company annualized recurring revenue, or ARR, of $1.834 billion, an increase of 19% compared to the prior-year period. Within our recurring revenue businesses, we are seeing some of our best performances from our SaaS-based solutions. Specifically, Anti Financial Crime Technology is showing particularly strong results with revenues increasing 16%, excluding the impact of Verafin. Verafin will begin to be included in our organic growth calculations next year and we saw an increase of over 30% versus prior year in that business. Additionally, in our Investment Intelligence business, our SaaS products including the Nasdaq Asset Owner Solutions, which is the new name for the combined eVestment and Solovis products drove the 13% increase in Analytics revenue.

 



Our third quarter results underscore the continued progress we've made to advance our strategy and additionally demonstrate the value capture from the flywheel effect, which is our ability to leverage the momentum in one business area to drive success in other parts of the business. For example, our success in attracting the majority of the quarter's new listings and capital raise to Nasdaq drives higher growth in equities and options trading, and multiplies cross-sell opportunities for our investor relations and ESG-related services. It also contributes to the vitality of the -- our Index business like the Nasdaq-100 and the NASDAQ Next Gen 100 Indexes and enhances the brand strength in other strategic growth areas of the Company.As we continue to evolve Nasdaq into a high-performance technology Company, each quarter that passes gives us an opportunity to reflect on the progress we've made. A critical pillar of our success has been our ability to allocate capital toward our technology and analytics capabilities. Our acquisition of Verafin has established us as a leader in Anti Financial Crime Technology as we build upon our already strong foundation in that area of the market. In the third quarter, our legacy Trade Surveillance segment saw the largest quarterly order intake in the last several years, adding new business across all regions, while our Market Surveillance group signed two new clients for our SaaS-based solutions, including a new crypto exchange client.Another pillar has been our ability to advance our leading corporate and marketplace positions. Corporate Platforms revenues increased 18% versus the prior year period, driven primarily by outstanding growth in the Nasdaq-listed issuer base across our US and Nordic markets. It has been a record year so far for new listings in the Nordics and with over 132 new listings coming to Nasdaq year-to-date. Additionally, the US has experienced the best new issuance year in the past two decades and Nasdaq continues to demonstrate strength with a 75% win rate for IPOs in the quarter and a 72% win rate year-to-date. As our listed issuer base grows, we're seeing correlated demand for our suite of IR and ESG services. Within ESG specifically, we see continued interest in our Nasdaq OneReport and our ESG Advisory solution, coming from every -- from companies at every stage of their ESG journey, including companies preparing to list on Nasdaq.I would like to acknowledge briefly here that we are pleased with the SEC's approval during the quarter of our proposal to enhance Board Diversity Disclosures. While there have been meaningful developments to advance Board Diversity across the governance ecosystem, we believe the standardized manner by which Nasdaq-listed companies will disclose this information will be critical to driving further progress. We look forward to working with our listed companies to implement the new listing rule.Market Services is another area of our business where we are seeing that flywheel-related success. Our expanded issuer base benefits equity trading since our share of trading and average capture rate is significantly higher in Nasdaq-listed stocks than it is in stocks listed on other venues. An expanded ecosystem of equity trading in turn brings positive impacts to the options industry where Nasdaq led all exchanges in the third quarter in the US equity options contracts traded. We're also excited by the early progress we're seeing in the growing suite of ESG-related capital markets solutions within Market Services, these include the Nasdaq Sustainable Bond Network, our European green bond listing service, our carbon removal marketplace Puro.earth, as well as the expansion of our Nordic ESG derivatives offering. Overall, our Market Services segment saw revenues increase 15% in the third quarter versus the prior year. And this was largely driven by increases in equity derivatives and cash equity net revenues, although all sub-segments of Market Services delivered year-over-year increases.Our Investment Intelligence business saw revenues increase 30% during the third quarter compared to the prior year period. I'm sorry, our Investment Intelligence businesses saw revenues increase 15% in the third quarter compared to the prior year period. This was driven by a combination of geographic expansion in our Market Data business, higher assets under management in exchange-traded products linked to Nasdaq indexes, as well as strong new sales, higher client retention, and take-up of new capabilities across the Analytics offerings.Our Index business continued its strong 2021 performance in the third quarter with revenues up 38% versus the prior year on a combination of both strong market performance of our most important thematic indexes, as well as very material net inflows. We're especially pleased to see positive responses from the market to some of our newer products in our Index franchise, with notable AUM growth in Invesco Innovation Suite, the new Mirae ETF tracking, the PHLX Semiconductor Index and the Hashdex products linked to the Nasdaq Crypto Index. More broadly, AUM in Nasdaq licensed ETPs launched since 2019 reached $13 billion at the end of the third quarter.We are also unlocking new areas of innovation in our Analytics business to bring more data and transparency to the institutional marketplace. This includes a significant partnership announced in July with Mercer, a leading consultant for institutional asset owners, that gives our asset owner clients broader access to high-quality research on investment managers, and their various investment strategies through a simplified workflow, enabling deeper due diligence. We expect this partnership to expand our clients' usage of our asset owner solutions going forward.While we continue our strategic journey, I would like to highlight next how we are measuring our progress in evolving the Company at the highest level using two key metrics. First, our year-to-date organic revenue growth across the Solutions segments continues to meet or exceed the medium-term outlook of 6% to 9% annualized growth that we initiated after adding Verafin. Our 2021 year-to-date organic growth across the Solutions segments is 15%. Secondly, because we are growing our SaaS revenues even more quickly than the 19% increase in the ARR year-over-year, the total percentage of ARR that we are generating from our SaaS businesses rose to 34% at the end of the third quarter. This is up from 28% in the prior year period and continues to move us closer to our medium-term objective of 40% to 50% by 2025.We are very pleased with the progress that our teams continue to make regarding SaaS contributions to our revenues, both organically and inorganically. Here are two brief examples that demonstrate our progress and innovation to support this growth. It has been eight months since we completed the acquisition of Verafin and our collaboration to date affirms our belief that this combination can accelerate new opportunities. This is particularly the case with larger Tier 1 and Tier 2 banks and those international banks from outside of Verafin's traditional customer franchise in North America. The Verafin team is executing on its strategy to further penetrate Tier 2 banks, which we define as banks holding total assets of over [Phonetic] $50 billion and we secured another significant win during the quarter through our joint efforts. While we still have significant developments in progress to unlock broader adoption among new customer groups, our early milestones certainly validate the potential that we have identified together.Additionally, we continue to evolve our cloud-based data offerings with the launch of the Nasdaq Data Link in September. This new platform includes a comprehensive suite of core data covering financial markets, investment fund information, and alternative data to every segment of the investment landscape. It's the perfect illustration of our SaaS evolution and a key growth area at Nasdaq and it underscores our ability to give clients an efficient means to consume and manage market-related data sets in the cloud, which is becoming a standard practice for many users. Initial interest in Nasdaq Data Link is encouraging. The platform has seen daily average of 3,000 new visitors and 200 new account activations in the weeks following the launch.Next, I will briefly address areas of our business where factors impacting the current operating landscape are particularly relevant today and in the near-term. By and large, we continue to operate within the confines of the pandemic. While there has been slow progress to enable in-person activities and on-site client visits, it remains far from the environment in which we operated prior to March of 2020. We are, however, fortunate that our diversified business model allows us to be executing at a very high level across our operations despite the prolonged backdrop of the pandemic. The logistical challenges of COVID-19 to travel, intense collaboration, and on-site installation and integration have had their highest impact on the market infrastructure technology business within our Market Technology segment. We have had several complex clearing and post-trade implementation projects that have experienced longer timelines and have required more resources to progress. These challenges have slowed revenue recognition and have increased near-term implementation expenses, impacting near-term margins and creating short-term capacity constraints despite growing demand from clients. The second half of 2021 continues to be heavily impacted by this dynamic and with this business having relatively high revenue visibility and clear capacity constraints, we know now that in the near-term Market Infrastructure Technology revenue growth within the broader Market Technology segment will continue to be impacted in 2022 even if the underlying logistical challenges of the pandemic improve.On the other hand, in our Corporate Platforms business, the pandemic period has created some efficiencies on -- to the go-public process, notably, IPO roadshows have turned virtual, making them more efficient for companies and investors. The new efficiencies have contributed to investors' ability to evaluate the multitude of new issuers and have increased bankers' capacity to support companies going through the IPO process. As of today, the pipeline for new listings remains robust based on the number of active S1 registrations on file with the SEC. Assuming current market conditions persist, we have a strong visibility into the upcoming six months and we anticipate this momentum to continue as we enter the final months of the year and into at least the first quarter of 2022.Turning to how we envision our ability to sustain sizable growth in the long-term, I see two key elements to our potential future -- sorry, our future potential. First, we have evolved Nasdaq's businesses to focus on critical capabilities that are strategically important to our clients and we have become more client-centric than ever. This evolution has allowed us to focus on providing the right data, insights, and technology that our clients need to be successful across the capital markets today and tomorrow. Second, we have strong competitive positions in very sizable markets with -- in the key areas of growth for Nasdaq. It is a combined serviceable addressable market of $20 billion across our Anti Financial Crime and Trade Surveillance technologies, our Indexes and Investment Analytics Solutions, as well as our Investor Relations, Governance, and ESG services. Based on our traction in these growth businesses today, we are incredibly excited about the opportunities that lie ahead of us.As I wrap up, I want to reiterate that we are entering the final months of 2021 with remarkable momentum as we make steady and consistent progress across our three key growth areas and our foundational marketplace businesses. Combined with a favorable capital markets and macroeconomic backdrop, we remain well-positioned to advance our strategy into 2022 and beyond.And with that, I will turn it over to Ann to review the financial results in greater detail.Ann Dennison -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Adena, and good morning, everyone. My commentary will primarily focus on our non-GAAP results and all comparisons will be to the prior year period, unless otherwise noted. Reconciliations of US GAAP to non-GAAP results can be found in our press release, as well as in a file located in the Financials section of our Investor Relations website at ir.nasdaq.com.I will start by reviewing third quarter performance beginning on Slide 11 of the presentation. The 17% increase in reported net revenue of $838 million is the net result of organic growth of 13%, including 13% organic increase in the Solutions segment and a 14% organic increase in Market Services and the contribution from Verafin, as well as the impact from divestitures.Moving to operating profit and margins, non-GAAP operating income increased 20% while the non-GAAP operating margin of 53% increased 1 percentage point compared to the prior year period. Non-GAAP net income attributable to Nasdaq for the third quarter of 2021 was $303 million, or $1.78 per diluted share, compared to $256 million, or $1.53 per diluted share in the prior year period.Turning to Slide 12, as Adena mentioned earlier, ARR totaled $1.834 billion, an increase of 19% from the prior year period, while annualized SaaS revenues totaled $620 million, an increase of 42%. Excluding the impact of Verafin, ARR increased 10% year-over-year.I will now review quarterly segment results on slides 13 through 16. Starting with Market Technology, revenue increased $28 million, or 33%. The increase reflects the positive $29 million impact from the acquisition of Verafin and a $5 million increase in our existing Anti Financial Crime Technology business, partially offset by an organic revenue decline of $6 million in our Market Infrastructure Technology business. Excluding a $3 million FX impact, as well as the $7 million purchase price adjustment on deferred revenue associated with the closing of the Verafin transaction, Verafin revenues would have been $39 million in the third quarter period and Anti Financial Crime Technology would have been $73 million with both our existing Surveillance and Verafin's FRAML solution continuing to exhibit strong momentum.The revenue decline within the Market Infrastructure Technology business was driven primarily by the planned roll-off of a sizable maintenance and support licensing contract with a customer who will continue to use our technology under our license agreement, as well as a decrease more broadly and change request in installation revenues, a consequence of both a strong comparison period in the third quarter of 2020 and capacity constraints we're working through due to logistical implications of the pandemic.ARR for Market Technology was $428 million in the third quarter of 2021, an increase of 54% compared to the prior year period. The Market Technology segment operating margin was 9% in the period. Excluding the impact of the previously mentioned $7 million purchase price adjustment related to Verafin, the operating margin would have been 14%.Investment Intelligence revenue increased $36 million, or 15%, all of which was organic. Organic revenue growth during the period reflects very strong growth in our Index business, as well as a meaningful contribution from Analytics. Annualized recurring revenue, or ARR, was $555 million, an increase of 9% compared to the prior year period. AUM and ETPs licensed to Nasdaq indices rose 15% compared to the prior year period to $361 billion, including $53 billion from net inflows and an $87 billion net increase from market appreciation, partially offset by a $92 billion negative impact related to the previously discussed ETP-sponsored switches. These switches collectively were associated with about a $3 million in run rate quarterly revenues, which will be fully reflected in our revenues for the first time in the fourth quarter of 2021. The Investment Intelligence segment operating margin of 65% is unchanged compared to the prior year period as we continue to make strategic investments in Index and Analytics to support sustained growth.Corporate Platforms revenues increased $24 million, or 18%, reflecting organic growth. The increase was primarily driven by higher US listings revenues due to the expansion in our listed issuer base, as well as higher adoption across the breadth of our Investor Relations and newer ESG Advisory and reporting offerings. Corporate Platforms' ARR was $529 million and increased 17% compared to the prior year period. The Corporate Platforms segment operating margin of 42% increased 3 percentage points compared to the prior year period.Market Services net revenues increased $39 million, or 15%. The organic revenue increase was $37 million, or 14%, and there was a $2 million positive impact from changes in FX rates. The organic increase reflects higher equity derivatives, cash equities, and trade management services revenues. The segment operating margin of 63% increased 3 percentage points from the prior year period, reflecting strong operating leverage on higher trading revenues.One modeling item to note is that, for the fourth quarter of 2021 and January 2022, we have waived the collection of certain regulatory fees for four of our US equity options markets. This is in order to ensure that collection of the fees in combination with other regulatory fees and fines does not exceed our regulatory costs. Holding all else equal, the removal of this fee is expected to reduce our reported capture rate by approximately $0.015 per contract in the fourth quarter of 2021, and approximately $0.005 per contract in the first quarter of 2022.Turning to Page 17 to review both expenses and guidance. Non-GAAP operating expenses increased $51 million to $397 million. The increase reflects a $26 million, or 8% organic increase, a $21 million increase from the net impact of acquisition and divestitures, as well as a $4 million increase from the impact of changes in FX rates due to a weaker US dollar. The organic expense increase has two main drivers: first, higher compensation expense reflecting our continued investment to drive growth, and an increase in variable performance-linked compensation due to our outstanding results; and second, increased costs related to, what has been a very active capital markets backdrop, including expenses related to increased trading capacity and marketing commitments supporting our listing clients.Consistent with what we said last quarter about expenses coming in near the high-end of the range, if performance continues to be strong in relation to our medium-term growth objectives, we are narrowing our 2021 non-GAAP operating expense guidance to a range of $1.605 billion to $1.62 billion from $1.59 billion to $1.62 billion previously. The updated range reflects the impact of strong and broad-based organic revenue growth in the first nine months of 2021 on variable expenses.Turning to Slide 18, debt increased by $226 million versus 2Q 2021, primarily due to net issuances of $259 million of commercial paper, primarily used to fund the accelerated share repurchase program, or ASR, and a net increase of $19 million of Eurobond from refinancing our 2023 Eurobond with the 2033 Eurobond during the quarter. This is partially offset by a $52 million decrease in Eurobond book values caused by a weaker euro.Our total debt to trailing 12 months EBITDA ratio ended the period at 3.2 times, unchanged from the second quarter of 2021. During the third quarter of 2021, the Company paid common stock dividends in the aggregate of $90 million and repurchased common stock in the amount of $475 million, including the initial delivery of approximately 2 million shares of common stock related to the ASR agreement we entered into in July. We expect to receive the remaining shares related to the ASR in the fourth quarter of 2021 and for additional planned repurchases related to the sale of our US Fixed Income business to resume in 2022. As of September 30, 2021, there was $984 million remaining under the share repurchase authorization. We continue to expect EPS dilution from the sale of Nasdaq Fixed Income to be about 2% in the first 12 months following the June 25 close, but to diminish to immaterial levels after that.Turning to Slide 19, I want to begin regularly addressing our focus on ESG elements of our business, both internally and externally, because we believe Nasdaq has an important set of opportunities in terms of our sustainability and external impact and we have a strong momentum in executing against them. We're committed to the highest level of sustainability in terms of how we run our businesses and serve all of our stakeholders, but also have positioned ourselves to develop high impact outside the organization through our Anti Fin Crime Solutions, our carbon removal marketplace, Puro, and our unique ESG products and services offered to our corporate clients, as well as our efforts to further our corporate purpose through focused philanthropy and volunteerism. Our purpose is to champion inclusive growth and prosperity and we have chosen to emphasize financial literacy and extensive entrepreneurship education and support within underserved communities throughout the US.During 2021, we've expanded our ESG disclosures with new climate reporting and Task Force on Climate-Related Financial commitments. Additionally, we have substantially expanded our Anti Financial Crime and ESG products and services capabilities and we received SEC approval for our listing rule promoting increased transparency on Board Diversity. We have much to do to continue executing on our ESG opportunities, but we were very encouraged to see Sustainalytics, a leading provider of ESG research and ratings, recently recognized our progress in these areas. Our latest Sustainalytics ESG risk rating improved to a level that puts Nasdaq in the top 3 percentile of all rated companies. We look forward to updating you on a regular basis as we progress our ESG initiatives going forward.Thank you for your time, and I'll turn it back over to the operator for Q&A.