
OperatorWelcome to Workday's Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2022 Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] I will now hand it over to Mr. Justin Furby, Vice President of Investor Relations.Justin Furby -- Senior Director, Investor RelationsThank you, operator. Welcome to Workday's second quarter fiscal 2022 earnings conference call. On the call, we have Aneel Bhusri and Chano Fernandez, our Co-CEOs; Robynne Sisco, our President and CFO; and Pete Schlampp, our Executive Vice President of Product Development. Following prepared remarks, we will take questions. Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast. Before we get started, we want to emphasize that some of our statements on this call, particularly our guidance, are based on the information we have as of today and include forward-looking statements regarding our financial results, applications, customer demand, operation and other matters.

 



These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those related to the impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our business and global economic conditions. Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K and most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q for additional information on risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. In addition, during today's call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe are useful as supplemental measures of Workday's performance.These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to and not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP results. You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations with comparable GAAP results in our earnings press release and on the Investor Relations page of our website. The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 90 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link. Also, the Customers page of our website includes a list of selected customers and is updated monthly. Our third quarter quiet period begins on October 16, 2021. Unless otherwise stated, all financial comparisons in this call will be to our results for the comparable period of our fiscal 2021.With that, I will hand the call over to Aneel.Aneel Bhusri -- Co-Founder, Co-Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman

 



Thank you, Justin, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today for our second quarter fiscal year '22 earnings call. I'm pleased to report that Q2 was one of our strongest quarters in company history. When combined with Q1, this was the best first half of the year in terms of ACV growth in over three years. We came into the year expecting our business to accelerate but the pace of digital acceleration across HR and finance is exceeding even our own expectations. Our leadership position continues to strengthen driven by a broadening of our product portfolio and exceptional execution.The growing Workday customer community now includes 55 million users and 50% of the Fortune 500 of which approximately 90% are live on Workday. Chano will share more shortly on our go-to-market success and Robynne will provide specifics in our raised growth outlook for the second half of the year. But let me share first some of the highlights from Q2. Let's start with Workday HCM. Our position as an innovator and market leader with our differentiated suite of products has never been stronger. We continue to attract new customers and many of our current customers continue to grow their investments with us.In Q2, we welcomed CVS Health, Iberdrola, Valeo Management Services, California Pizza Kitchen and HeidelbergCement AG to the Workday family along with many other new HCM customers. While these new wins are very important us, we remain equally focused on delivering excellent service for our current customers and that includes delivering on our commitments to them. Amongst the many go lives of Q2, I would like to highlight Harman International Industries, BJ's Wholesale Club and Old Dominion. In addition to the strong growth from core HCM, this was our first full quarter with Peakon.I'm pleased to report we got off to a great start delivering the largest quarter in Peakon history with early success selling back into our install base, a true testament for the incredible Peakon product and even better Peakon team. We also continue to see strong traction for our financial management suite of applications. We believe that a combination of our expanded set of offerings including planning, spend management, and accounting center and the acceleration of digital transformations by the Office of the CFO are collectively driving broader adoption of our finance offerings.

 



In fact, the highlight in Q2 was nearly 50% ACV growth in the Workday Adaptive Planning business, showcasing our strategy of meeting customers where they are continues to drive significant success. In addition, we continue to see momentum build in our core financial deployments. New core financial customers in Q2 include Cinemark U.S.A., University of Wisconsin System and Wise Markets. Notable core FINS go-lives included the University of Southern California, KeyBanc North America and Fox Corporation. Moving on to the innovation front, we are focused on broadening our platform and extending our product capabilities to create additional levers for long-term growth.As a recent example, and to continue seizing on the great opportunity we have internationally, this quarter we announced our intention to deliver Workday Payroll for Australia and Germany. As you know, our country-specific payrolls are very compelling to customers and we're excited to deliver these new solutions as levers of growth for these markets. We also recently announced that Workday has achieved ready status for the Federal Risk and Authorization Management program, or FedRAMP, at a moderate impact level with full authority to operate estimated for spring 2022.With this achievement we materially advance our position to help federal agencies accelerate digital transformation in order to help them modernize their business systems and gain real-time insights to address critical challenges across their organizations. Switching to the people front, we continue to invest heavily in our company culture to sustain our belief that happy employees deliver the highest levels of satisfaction to our great customers. On that note, starting in Q4 this year, we'll be extending a cash bonus plan companywide to further ensure our people feel valued, motivated, and properly recognized.Robynne will update you later on our margin expectations for the back half of the year. This is a direct reflection of our business momentum and the confidence we have in our workmates to grow the business to $10 billion in revenues and beyond. With our outstanding first half of fiscal year '22, we are seeing acceleration in our business. As I look ahead, my optimism for Workday's future couldn't be higher. We have a great team in place and a significant global opportunity in front of us as companies continue to embark on their HR and finance transformation journeys.With that, I'll turn it over to our co-CEO Chano Fernandez. Over to you, Chano.Chano Fernandez -- Co-Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Aneel, and thank you to everyone for joining us today. As Aneel mentioned, we had a fantastic Q2, driven by very strong execution, which combined with a rapidly improving demand environment for enterprise management cloud solutions, is causing our net new business to accelerate at an even faster pace than we expected. The strength in Q2 was broad-based, highlighted by large enterprise outperformance and solid growth in landing new core HR and FINS customers. We also saw a strength in landing new customers across our expanded portfolio solutions targeting the Office of the CFO and CHRO.For example, our Planning and Workday strategic sourcing businesses drove significant strength in winning new large enterprise customers in Q2, including the largest planning first deal in our history. And Peakon drove significant new logo of activity in EMEA, providing us a gateway into selling core HCM and FINS solutions over time. In addition to solid performance from our land sales team, the momentum we've been seeing with our customer base team also continued in Q2 as companies look to Workday as a trusted strategic partner. We had another quarter of strong renewal performance, and our customer base drove strength cross-selling a number of solutions such as core FINS, Planning, Spend Management, Health, Peakon, Extend and our Talent portfolio.For example, in Planning we signed add-on deals with Google with one of the world's largest telecommunication companies and a Fortune 100 distribution company. And in Spend Management, we had a number of add-on wins with companies such as Loan Secure, Mercy Health, CME Group and Ralph Lauren. We also had a number of notable extended customer space wins in the quarter, including a Fortune 100 manufacturer, a Fortune 50 energy company and one of the world's largest banks. And Peakon isn't just landing new logos. It is a powerful solution to sell back to our customers. We had notable add-on deals this quarter, including Uptake and PerkinElmer.From a geographic standpoint, our performance was strong globally with North America outperforming across all segments, including significant strength from our large and medium enterprise teams and from industries such as healthcare and higher education. In international market, EMEA was a standout, driving healthy acceleration in new ACV bookings with particular outperformance in continental Europe, including outstanding performance in France and in Spain. We are seeing improving market dynamics and pipeline momentum across our rest-of-world regions.And we expect those trends to continue as we move into the back half of the year. As we've discussed over the last few quarters, we're investing aggressively in our go-to-market exports. Our largest area of headcount investment in the first half of FY '22 was in sales and marketing as we added significant new global sales capacity across both our net new and install base teams, including a doubling down in international markets. We're also accelerating our spend across key brand and marketing initiatives.These investments, which we expect will continue in the second half of the year, are focused on driving growth in FY '23 and beyond. And we're very pleased with the evolution we're seeing in our pipeline, which again saw solid growth in Q2. In closing, I would like to thank the more than 13,000 global workmates who have enabled us to drive such a strong Q2 on the first half results. Our growth and differentiated suite of solutions is winning in the market, and we're incredibly well-positioned as we enter the second half of the year.Let's keep the momentum going, and now I will turn it over to our President and CFO, Robynne Sisco. Over to you, Robynne.Robynne Sisco -- President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Chano, and good afternoon, everyone. As Aneel and Chano mentioned, we delivered an incredibly strong Q2, driven by exceptional execution against a rapidly improving market backdrop as organizations accelerate the pace of digital transformation across HR and Finance. Subscription revenue in the second quarter was $1.11 billion, up 20% year-over-year, driven by very strong new business sales, favorable in-quarter linearity and an over-performance on customer renewals with gross retention, once again, over 95%. Professional Services revenue was $147 million, resulting in total revenue of $1.26 billion.Revenue outside the U.S. was $318 million, up 24% year-over-year and representing 25% of the total. 24-month backlog at the end of the second quarter was $6.88 billion, growth of 19%. Total subscription revenue backlog was $10.58 billion, up 23%. Our non-GAAP operating income for the second quarter was $292 million, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 23%. Margin overachievement was driven by a combination of top line outperformance and favorable expense variances. Operating cash flow in Q2 was $198 million, growth of 26%.In addition to strong profitability from our core operations, during Q2 we also recognized a nearly $100 million mark-to-market gain from the successful IPO of one of our venture's portfolio companies. We will continue to see mark-to-market adjustments from our equity investments, but we expect gains of this magnitude will be extremely rare. Our largest investments continue to be in our people and in attracting top talent to Workday. In the first half of the year, we successfully added and integrated more than 900 net new employees, bringing our total employee count to over 13,400 at the end of Q2.We've made important progress toward our full-year target of adding 2,500 employees and expect the pace of hiring to increase throughout the back half of FY '22. Overall, we're extremely pleased with the momentum we saw in Q2 and we're very well-positioned as we enter the important back half of the year. Now, turning to guidance, based on our strong Q2 and the momentum we're seeing in our business, we are raising our FY '22 outlook and providing Q3 guidance as follows: For Subscription revenue, we're raising our full-year estimate to be in the range of $4.50 billion to $4.51 billion, 19% growth.For Q3, we expect Subscription revenue of $1.156 billion to $1.158 billion, 20% growth at the high end, and we expect 24-month backlog growth of 19%. We still expect Professional Services revenue to be $590 million in FY '22 as we continue to prioritize driving the highest level of customers' success. For Q3, we expect Professional Services revenue of $150 million. Investing for growth remains our number one priority. In addition to the increased pace of hiring in the back half of FY '22, we also expect to ramp non-headcount spending with investments specifically targeted at accelerating demand generation, enhancing our market position and advancing our strategic product roadmap.Additionally, the new bonus plan Aneel mentioned will take effect on November 1 and is expected to impact our Q4 margins by approximately 300 basis points. Given that backdrop, we expect non-GAAP operating margins of 21% in Q3, 16% in Q4 and 21% for the full year. The GAAP operating margin is expected to be lower than the non-GAAP margin by approximately 24 percentage points in Q3 and 25 percentage points in Q4 and for the full year. Given our strong performance, we are also raising our FY '22 operating cash flow guidance to $1.5 billion.We continue to expect $270 million of other capital investments to support our customer growth and continued business expansion. I'll close by thanking our amazing employees, customers and partners for their continued support and hard work. We're off to a very strong start in the first half of the year and our focus remains on driving accelerated bookings growth. We look forward to hosting our virtual Analyst Day on September 21 where we will share Insights on our strategic innovation and growth initiatives as we look ahead to FY '23 and beyond.With that, I'll turn it over to the operator to begin Q&A.