  OperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Holly, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome you to today's Ford Motor Company first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions]. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to director of investor relations, Lynn Antipas Tyson. Lynn.Lynn Antipas Tyson -- Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Holly. Welcome, everyone, to Ford Motor Company's first-quarter 2021 earnings call. Presenting today are Jim Farley, our president and CEO; and John Lawler, our chief financial officer. Also joining us for Q&A is Marion Harris, CEO of Ford Credit. Jim will make some opening comments. John will talk about our first-quarter results and guidance, and then we'll turn to Q&A. Today's discussion will include some non-GAAP references. These are reconciled to the most comparable US GAAP measures in the appendix of our earnings deck, which can be found along with the rest of our earnings materials at shareholder.ford.com.Today's discussion includes forward-looking statements about our expectations. Actual results may differ from those stated. The most significant factors that could cause actual results to differ are included on Slide 24. Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons are year over year, company EBIT, EPS, and free cash flow are on an adjusted basis, and product mix is volume-weighted. A quick update on our upcoming IR events. I'm very pleased to announce that we will hold our Capital Markets Day on Wednesday, May 26. The webcast will open at 9:15 a.m. and we will start promptly at 9:30 Eastern and end roughly at noon.

 



 We will share more information about the meeting later on this call and invitations will be sent out shortly. On Monday, May 3, Wells Fargo will host a fireside chat with John Lawler and Kumar Galhotra, president, Americas, and International Market Group. And on June 17, Deutsche Bank will host a virtual fireside chat with Jim Farley. Now, I'll turn the call over to Jim. Jim Farley -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Lynn. Hello, everyone. Thanks so much for joining us today. Our first quarter of the year really defies an easy explanation or a pithy soundbite. But if I had to sum up one way, it would be this: we're executing on our plan. And I'm excited to say Ford is becoming a stronger, more resilient company that can deliver under pressure, manage risks and seize opportunities all while generating consistent returns for our stakeholders. In the quarter, we earned 4.8 billion in adjusted EBIT. It's our best quarterly adjusted EBIT ever.

 



 And we achieved these results in the midst of a persistent global pandemic, and an unprecedented supply shock tied to the global semiconductor shortage. We mobilized the global team as we always do in these times of crisis. And we rapidly adjusted to the realities that we were seeing. Our team very skillfully navigated the supply constraints, through sharp yield management, and a relentless focus on turning around our automotive operations. That means improving our launch performance, improving our quality, enhancing our brand, strengthening our customer relationships, and improving our go-to-market execution. And Ford Credit, which in our view is the best automotive finance captive in the industry, also delivered an outstanding quarter. Aided by higher prices, our results benefited from the industrywide imbalance of supply and demand given the semiconductor shortage. However, we also delivered improvements that will persist over time, including our global redesign in our overseas operations, which contribute to the largest swing in year-over-year profitability for those operations that we've seen. The benefit of our incredibly fresh portfolio refresh, which lowers the average showroom age now in the U.S. to just three years. And of course, we made progress on cost across the business. As we share with you today, there are more white waters moments ahead for us that we have to navigate. The semiconductor shortage and the impact to production will get worse before it gets better. In fact, we believe our second quarter will be the trough for this year. We have worked to do to get our industry footprint back to firing on all cylinders or maybe should I say fully charged. Overall, though, I'm proud of the progress we made as a team, as our underlying strength at Ford improves, enhances our cash flow, access to capital, gives us financial flexibility to modernize and disrupt our business while investing in growth. We are very intentional about this because these are the catalyst factors that will transform Ford into a form of vibrant company that will deliver not only our iconic must-have products, but also -- and I would argue more importantly, and always on ever-improving customer experience for both our retail and commercial customers. Let me share a few milestones from the quarter turning around auto. Over the past four years, our overseas markets lost a total of 5.8 billion in EBIT. This quarter the regions delivered roughly $500 million of EBIT, that's a $1 billion improvement year over year. Let's look at those must-have services and products. We'll start with the new F-150, which gained share and also gained share of revenue. And it had new innovations like, which showed again, that we understand Ford customers afford these truck customers better than anyone. And the Bronco Sport is off to a fast start bringing 60% new customers to our brand. The new Mustang Mach-E is proving to be a hit with customers just a few days on lot with very strong demand in North America, now in Europe, and coming to China. And it's also bringing in new customers to the brand almost 70%. And we still have the big Bronco, the two- and the four-door with incredible order bank, the F-150 Electric and the E-Transit. And we have some surprises for you as well. Stay tuned. Just as we are in the early stages of our electric vehicle plans, we're only scratching the surface of our customers benefiting from our fully connected vehicles. We have successfully deployed our first major over their update software updates to hundreds of 1000s of customers, for Mach-E and F-150. And this pace will only accelerate the next several years, making our vehicles better over time. Later this year, for example, we will offer our very first fully tested Ford BlueCruise hands-free driving technology, which will be delivered over the air to Mustang E and F-150 customers. And by 2028, we expect to have more than 33 million over the air updated capable vehicles on the road. Now this install base gives Ford a significant opportunity to develop products. And for us, very exciting new services that will transform the way we deliver products to our customers. They'll make significant improvements to our customers experience and drive quality of our vehicles. And we're on track to lead the electric revolution in areas of Ford strength. For example, we announced we're investing 1 billion in the new electric vehicle manufacturing center in Germany, whereby 2023, just a few years from now, we'll be assembling our very first high-volume all-electric passenger car for Europe. A year later in 2024, all Ford Europe commercial vehicles will be zero-emissions capable. And by 2030, all Ford European passenger cars will be all electric. Now, these investments are just part of our $22 billion commitment to lead the electric revolution in areas that we're strong. And yesterday we announced a very important new development. We have formed a new global battery center of excellence called Ford Ion Park, which will accelerate our research and development of battery, as well as, battery cell technology, including future battery manufacturing. This only starts to hint at our electric vehicle ambitions. There is so much more to come. Now before I turn it over to John, let me share a bit more about where we and the industry are in semiconductors. When we initially gave guidance in February, we expected that the semiconductor supply chains would remain constrained through the second quarter. And we have an opportunity to begin recovering lost volumes in the second half is kind of played out similar to that with one big exception. The industry faced another setback on March 19 when Renesas, a leading semiconductor supplier, who manufactures about two thirds of all chips in the auto industry experienced a significant fire at their Naka 3 facility. Multiple Tier 1s who supply global OEMs sourced their chips from this facility, including nine Tier 1s who supply us at Ford. Now Renesas expects it will return to full capacity in July, and they're making great progress. While most of the chips for our modules for this facility are definitely dual sourced, Ford and others are facing additional constraints. And we've yet to see significant new chip capacity come online for our industry. Estimates project the full recovery of the auto chip supply will stretch into fourth quarter of this year and possibly even into 2022 making industry volume recovery in the second half of this year even more challenging. As you can imagine, we are working this issue 24/7 and engaging with key political leaders and decision makers globally, as well as, of course our supply chain. Ford relationship with the new Biden administration rests on our distinctive profile that we assemble more vehicles and have more U.S. auto jobs than any other competitor. It's also well recognized that Ford sided with California on greenhouse gas regulations when that wasn't the easy choice to make. So from COVID, PPE to the current semiconductor crisis, to batteries for EVs, this past year has vividly spotlighted the importance of improving domestic supply chain for both our industry and our country. Now we found the White House and the new cabinet engaging, accessible and responsive. We look forward to continued close working relationship as the country formulates policies to facilitate the transformation from iced above and finally address infrastructure deficits. As you would expect, we're committed to learn from this crisis to be a much stronger company. We're taking this opportunity to revamp our supply chain to eliminate vulnerabilities down the road. This is especially relevant as we consider not only semiconductors, but also battery cells and other commodities critical to our modernization and transformation. We're also learning as we operate in this extraordinary low stock high demand environment in the U.S. and around the world that we will see a leaner, more efficient company in the future, we're getting more fit. And with that, I'd like to turn it over to John.John Lawler -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Jim. So heading into 2021, the run rate of our business was on track to deliver 8 billion to 9 billion in adjusted EBIT, and that's up about 33% versus 2019. And that, of course, is all before the impact of global semiconductor shortage. So our confidence in the stronger run rate is built on the durable changes that we've made to improve our returns, improve our cash flow and of course provides us financial flexibility to invest in growth. And these improvements were embedded in our original 2021 outlook. So for example, after shifting an overwhelming majority of our capital to our franchise strengths like trucks and utilities, we refreshed our product portfolio, we lowered our average showroom age and shifted our mix to our higher-margin vehicles. And as a result, relative to 2019, the increase in our average transaction prices in the U.S. was $1,900 more per unit than the industry average. Now, also the tough choices we made to redesign our overseas businesses started to turn the tide. Rationalizing manufacturing footprints, strengthening the product portfolios, focusing relentlessly on cost, and investing in areas of growth and strength are now producing results. Another item we've also talked to you about is warranty. Over the last three years, our warranty expense is increased by more than $2 billion. Now, we've addressed this issue through changes in design, how we inspect vehicles, how we work with suppliers on quality, and now how we're using connected data to identify issues early in the process and drive quality improvements. Now, this quarter, we delivered a $400 million improvement in warranty expense year over year, and we're intent on accelerating this positive progress. So these are just a few -- three of the many examples of how the trajectory of our business is changing and what gave us the confidence when we set our original targets for 2021. Now, let me turn to this quarter. Wholesales declined 6% and in most cases that's due to the chip constraints. Now despite the declines in wholesales, revenue grew 6% aided by higher net pricing and favorable mix. We delivered 4.8 billion in adjusted EBIT, and an adjusted EBIT margin of 13.3%. And as expected, adjusted EBIT, including an investment gain of 900 million from a Rivian funding round that they had in January, so that was included as well. And then adjusted free cash flow was negative 400 million. The global semiconductor shortage reduced our planned Q1 volume by about 17% or 200,000 units. And that's consistent with the 10% to 20% range of expected losses that we shared with you in February. In Q1, we fully offset the EBIT impact of the loss volume, but we reduced incentives as part of the industrywide response to tight dealer inventories and that's especially in North America. We optimized the mix of our production to build our higher-margin, higher-demand vehicles. We also reduced our structural costs in areas including manufacturing and advertising. We improved results in our FCSD parts business and in our joint ventures. And we benefited from strong used vehicle prices in Ford Credit as customers and dealers drove up demand for used vehicles as new vehicle supply sell. So some of these improvements, like the lower manufacturing costs and the robust pricing improvement, we do expect those to moderate as the industry returns to full production and dealer inventories rebound. Now, our adjusted free cash flow in the quarter of negative 400 million was significantly lower than our 4.8 billion of adjusted EBIT. Now, there's three main factors that contributed to this gap. First, our gain on Rivian was noncash. Second, in the quarter, we grew inventory by $2.2 billion. Now, this includes parts for vehicles we could not build due to the lack of chips, but it also included approximately 22,000 vehicles. Those are primarily in North America that are awaiting installation of chip-related components and so some of this inventory impact though was offset by a growth in payables. And third is timing differences. Now, this primarily relates to the reserves for customer allowances for incentives and warranty. This reserve -- that reserve fell by $1.6 billion in the quarter. The vehicle incentive portion is based on the number of vehicles awaiting sale and dealer inventory, and the expected incentive per unit and both of those fell in the quarter due to the supply disruption. Now, we do expect that working capital and the timing differences to normalize as the semiconductor supply is restored, if dealer stocks rebound and incentives return to more normal levels, and we believe this process will take several quarters and will most likely extend into 2022. Our strong balance sheet provides considerable flexibility to navigate times of stress such as this chip shortage while also investing in growth. So we ended the quarter with over 31 billion of cash and 47 billion of liquidity, which includes our recent 2.3 billion convertible issuance. We will continue to be very proactive in managing our capital structure. Overall, our business units did a fantastic job prioritizing newly launched products, making sure that we process customer orders and high margin vehicles quickly. And that was all in a supply constrained environment and the strong customer response to Mach-E affirms our choice to shift more capital for best, including investments to in source key elements of the value chain necessary for competitive and sustainable profitability. So let me share a few of the highlights from the quarter. In North America, wholesales declined 14% while revenue increased 5%. Revenue was aided by strong net pricing and favorable mix, robust customer demand for our new product portfolio, tight industrywide inventories and favorable cost performance on a year-over-year basis and that included warranty. All of that helped us deliver 2.9 billion of EBIT and a margin of 12.8% which was North America's highest margin in five years. In South America, wholesales and revenue declined 70% and 40% respectively, and that reflects the exit of unprofitable products. The renewed focus on strengths like Ranger, Transit and key imports drove our best quarterly EBIT since 2013 and our sixth consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement. In Europe, wholesale declined 4% as revenue grew 13%, aided by improved product mix, led by our commercial vehicles and net pricing. These actions together with our continued focus on cost delivered 341 million in EBIT with a margin of 4.8%. In China, China delivered strong growth in both wholesale and revenue. EBIT was about breakeven, which marked the fourth consecutive quarter of improvement, supported by strength in Lincoln, Ford near-premium utilities and commercial vehicles. In fact, Lincoln now produces 90% of its products locally, was profitable, posting its best-ever Q1 retail sales, nearly doubling its share on a year-over-year basis. And commercial vehicle sales were also strong and now comprise 48% of Ford's total China sales. In IMG, growth both wholesales revenue -- grew both wholesales and revenue as they focused on their franchise strengths of Ranger and Everest. And IMG achieved its best quarterly EBIT, reflecting strong cost performance, net pricing, and favorable exchange. All markets in IMG were profitable except for India. And IMG also committed to invest 1 billion to expand Ranger capacity in our South Africa export hub to meet customer demand in more than 100 global markets. In mobility, our AV business continues to invest in refining its go-to-market strategy. It added a new 140,000 square foot command center in Miami and along with Argo AI is simulating ride-hail and delivery across six cities. And I'd be remiss not to highlight the continued strength of our Ford Credit business, which delivered 1 billion in EBIT in the quarter. Now turning to guidance, as we entered 2021, we were among the first to identify the potential for a 10% to 20% adverse impact in volume in the first half of the year, due to the growing chip constraints. We said at that time that this risk had the potential to reduce our full-year adjusted EBIT by $1 billion to $2.5 billion. That would take us off our original target of 8 billion to 9 billion in adjusted EBIT. We've updated our outlook to include the expanded impact of the global chip shortage, and that's largely driven by the Renesas fire. While the situation is a significant headwind, we have definitive actions to address a full range of potential outcomes. So we now expect to lose about 50% of our planned Q2 production, an increase from the 17% loss in Q1, making Q2 the trough for our performance this year. Now, while we expect the flow of chips from Renesas to be restored in July, we and many in the industry now believe the global shortage may not be fully resolved until 2022. So our outlook now assumes we lose roughly 10% of planned second-half production. In total, we believe the shortage for the year will drive a loss of about 1.1 million wholesale units, which translates to about 2.5 billion EBIT. That headwind -- and that headwind in EBIT is net of recovery actions for the year. Now this EBIT impact was the high end of the range we gave in February, and brings our full-year adjusted EBIT guidance range to between 5.5 billion and 6.5 billion. And it's very important to highlight that even though our expected volume loss for the year has more than doubled. We have worked to contain the EBIT in back to the high end of our original range. But we now also expect full-year adjusted free cash flow of 500 million to 1.5 billion, and this includes a 3 billion adverse impact from semiconductors. The semiconductor impact on cash is 500 million worse than the impact on EBIT due to timing differences and the working capital impacts that will recover once a run rate of production is fully restored, dealer stocks return to more normal levels and incentives rebound. Our Q2 free cash flow will be significantly negative. And that's despite additional Ford Credit distributions driven by our adoption of the updated tax accounting standard, which reduces our tax allocation of Ford Credit and supports additional Ford Credit distributions. However, we expect our cash and liquidity to remain healthy throughout the year, providing us with considerable flexibility to manage the present situation. And this supports our growing confidence in the resilience of our business and our ability to effectively navigate the challenge just as we navigated the COVID related production disruptions last year. So now I'd like to turn it back to Jim for a few comments about the Capital Markets Day.Jim Farley -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, John. Before we turn it over to questions, I want to reiterate how proud I'm with this Ford team for its commitment to deliver on our plan, to fix automotive, to modernize the company, and to find ways to disrupt our business and the traditional auto industry to create value that will be rewarded -- that will reward our stakeholders. On May 26, we will hold a virtual presentation for investment community where we plan to deep dive into our plan, as Lynn said. We're going to cover how we're going to lead the electric vehicle revolution in areas that we're strong at Ford. Number two, we're going to build out our industry-leading commercial vehicle business with products, but as well services that lead to growth and new revenue streams. And we're going to leverage our connected vehicles to transform the customer experience and truly shift Ford from a more traditional OEM to a company where the manufacture and sale of the vehicle is just the very first step, and then ever-improving always on and far more rewarding customer experience. I so look forward to speaking to all of you soon as we continue our effort to create a Ford that can compete and especially win in this exciting new era of our industry. So with that, let's start the Q&A. 