
Operator[Operator Instructions] Good day, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2021 Zebra Technologies Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to Mike Steele, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Micheal Steele -- Vice President of Investor RelationsGood morning, and welcome to Zebra's third quarter conference call. This presentation is being simulcast on our website at investors.zebra.com and will be archived there for at least one year. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially due to factors discussed in our SEC filings.During this call, we will reference non-GAAP financial measures as we describe our business performance. You can find reconciliations at the end of this slide presentation and in today's earnings press release. Throughout this presentation, unless otherwise indicated, our references to sales growth are year-over-year on a constant currency basis and exclude results from recently acquired businesses for the 12 months following each acquisition. This presentation will include prepared remarks from Anders Gustafsson, our Chief Executive Officer; and Nathan Winters, our Chief Financial Officer.Anders will begin with our third quarter results, then Nathan will provide additional detail on the financials and discuss our fourth quarter outlook. Anders will conclude with progress made on advancing our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision. Following the prepared remarks, Joe Heel, our Chief Revenue Officer, will join us as we take your questions.Now let's turn to Slide four as I hand it over to Anders.Anders Gustafsson -- Anders Gustafsson-Zebra Technologies Corporation-Chief Executive Officer & DirectorThank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Our team delivered exceptional third quarter results that exceeded our outlook, supported by robust broad-based demand for our solutions. For the quarter, we realized adjusted net sales growth of 27% or 23% on an organic basis, an adjusted EBITDA margin of 21.7% and a 140 basis point year-over-year improvement. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $4.55, a 39% increase from the prior year. And strong free cash flow. Our customers are prioritizing investment in our solutions to digitize and automate their workflows in an increasingly on-demand global economy.We realized double-digit sales growth across all four regions, with particularly strong growth in EMEA. Favorable business mix and higher service and software margins enabled us to expand our gross profit margin despite escalating freight costs. Our teams have been diligently leveraging alternative modalities of transport and expediting shipments to mitigate the impact of continued industrywide supply chain challenges. We also scaled operating expenses while continuing to invest in initiatives to drive sustainable, profitable growth.With that, I will now turn the call over to Nathan to review our Q3 financial results in more detail and discuss our Q4 outlook.Nathan Winters -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Anders. Let's start with the P&L on Slide six. In Q3, adjusted net sales increased 26.6%, including the impact of currency and acquisitions, and 23.2% on an organic basis reflecting broad-based demand for our solutions from customers of all sizes. Our Asset Intelligence and Tracking segment, including printing and supplies, grew 12.1%, while Enterprise Visibility & Mobility segment sales increased 27.9%, driven by exceptional growth in mobile computing.Note that we also realized double-digit growth across services and software. All four regions grew double digits. North America sales increased 14%, with particular strength in mobile computing, supplies and services. EMEA sales increased 39% and with strong growth across all major solutions offerings, particularly mobile computing. APAC sales grew 17%, with strength across most geographies, including China. And in Latin America, sales increased 41%, continuing with strong recovery with double-digit growth in all major offerings. Adjusted gross margin expanded 130 basis points to 45.1%, primarily driven by favorable business mix and higher service and software margins.These benefits were partially offset by significant premium freight charges, which we will discuss further in a moment. Adjusted operating expenses as a percentage of sales improved 30 basis points as we continue to prioritize high-return investments in the business. Third-quarter adjusted EBITDA margin was 21.7%, a 140 basis point increase from the prior year period, reflecting higher gross margin and operating expense leverage. We drove non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $4.55, $1.28 or 39% year-over-year increase which benefited from lower interest expense and a favorable tax rate.Turning now to the balance sheet and cash flow highlights on Slide seven. We generated $798 million of free cash flow through the first nine months of 2021. This was $316 million higher than the prior year, primarily due to increased profitable growth. Our balance sheet remains strong. From a debt leverage perspective, we ended Q3 at a modest 0.5 times net debt to adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio, which provides us ample flexibility. In the first nine months of 2021, we invested more than $300 million to acquire Fetch Robotics and Adaptive Vision to advance our intelligent automation solutions in manufacturing and the warehouse. We made $24 million of venture investments in four portfolio companies. In addition, we made $38 million of capital expenditures and $25 million of share repurchases.On Slide eight, we show the multiyear impact of transitory costs primarily related to expedited freight due to supply chain bottlenecks caused by the pandemic, as well as tariffs on China imports. Our supply chain team continues to take extraordinary measures to satisfy customer demand in an exceptionally challenging environment. Global freight costs are elevated for all modalities of delivery across our supply chain. This includes higher shipping cost per kilo, a significant shift from ocean to airfreight as well as increased cost to expedite component parts to our Tier one manufacturers to meet customer commitments. In Q3 compared to pre-pandemic rates, we incurred incremental premium freight costs of $44 million, which was $36 million higher than the prior year.For Q4, we now expect approximately $55 million of premium freight costs based on the higher spot rates we are seeing in the market, which translates to a four percentage point negative gross margin impact. We expect premium freight costs to abate as component supply and freight capacity improves. Let's now turn to our outlook. Our robust sales pipeline and strong order backlog is supported by broad-based demand for our solutions as enterprises look to automate their operations to satisfy increasing consumer expectations. Despite extended lead times and uneven inventory availability, we expect fourth-quarter adjusted net sales to increase between 8% and 12% year-over-year. This outlook assumes a two percentage point additive impact from acquisitions and foreign currency changes. We anticipate Q4 adjusted EBITDA margin to be slightly higher than 21%, which assumes gross margin contraction from the prior year due to significantly higher premium freight expense, which I discussed earlier. We are also experiencing product component inflation, which we expect to largely offset with price increases that became effective in September. Non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $4.20 to $4.50. We have increased our free cash flow outlook to be at least $950 million for the year due to higher-than-expected profitability.Please reference additional modeling assumptions shown on Slide nine. With that, I will turn the call back to Anders to discuss how we're advancing our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision in new and existing markets with spotlights on our acquisition of Antuit and our healthcare vertical.Anders Gustafsson -- Anders Gustafsson-Zebra Technologies Corporation-Chief Executive Officer & DirectorThank you, Nathan. I am encouraged by the strengthening demand across our business and the bold actions our teams are taking to navigate supply chain challenges. Slide 11 illustrates how we digitize and automate the front line of business by leveraging our industry-leading portfolio of products, solutions, software and services. By transforming workflows Zebra's customers can address complex operational challenges to achieve higher levels of performance. By closely collaborating with our partners and customers, we help businesses across a variety of end markets to implement solutions that maximize their return on investment.Human labor is a scarce resource. Our innovative solutions empower their workforce to do their jobs more effectively by navigating constant change in near real time, utilizing insights driven by advanced software capabilities such as machine vision, prescriptive analytics and artificial intelligence. In October, we acquired Antuit for approximately $145 million to further advance our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision. This high-margin Software as a Service business generated sales of approximately $27 million in 2020, nearly doubling over a three-year period.Slide 12 illustrates how the AI-powered demand forecasting solution ensures that its retail and consumer product customers have the right inventory at the right time at the optimal price, whether it's fulfilled through online ordering or in-store shopping. Antuit's cutting-edge offering complements our suite of workflow software solutions, including Reflexis, Zebra Prescriptive Analytics, Workforce Connect and SmartCount, which works together to increase the performance of labor and inventory across the integrated supply chain. Our growing software suite will help our customers break down silos between planning and execution, giving them a competitive advantage that can increase revenue and margins as they navigate the increased demands of omnichannel fulfillment.Now turning to Slide 13. Businesses partner with Zebra to optimize their end-to-end workflows. I would like to highlight a few recent key wins across our end markets that demonstrate how Zebra solutions are improving productivity and service levels. In retail, Zebra is enabling improved execution of omnichannel fulfillment as more consumers shop online. We recently secured our largest win to date in India, providing TC21 mobile computers and printers to help a local retailer compete more effectively against its larger omnichannel and e-commerce global competitors. We are also enabling a Japanese supermarket chain to provide an improved customer experience with our EC55 personal shopping mobile computing solution.Over the next several quarters, a leading home improvement retailer will be deploying 90,000 TC52 mobile computers to a broader number of associates in their stores. Key use cases include item locationing, best-in-class long-range imaging, mobile point-of-sale and e-commerce functionality. Competitive differentiators for this win included our seamless network connectivity, best-in-class noise cancellation and enterprise leading durability. Our mobile computers will also have full desktop functionality when inserted into workstation cradles.This retailer is also deploying our Workforce Connect Software-as-a-Service solution, which enables associate-to-associate instant collaboration as well as associated-to-group and's store-to-store communication. A leading North American transportation and logistics company is deploying 9,000 TC77 mobile computers to their truck drivers for loading and delivery use cases. This solution will increase productivity, improve inventory accuracy, log driving times and track regulatory compliance. Turning toSlide 14, we highlight how healthcare providers are using Zebra solutions to digitize and automate the patient journey and address labor challenges. Our recently published Vision study highlights that 95% of decision-makers expect to increase spending in healthcare IT and clinical mobility in the next year. We have some exciting recent strategic wins that demonstrate our value proposition. We recently secured a takeaway win of a leading U.S. healthcare provider with more than 150 hospitals and approximately 2,000 sites of care.This customer selected Zebra to provide a multiyear rollout of 85,000 scanners for a wide range of use cases, including bedside nursing, surgery, pharmacy and inventory management. They also recognized our unique software tools that enable real-time event tracking to prioritize patient care. A large Eastern European public hospital system recently placed in order to provide 19,000 TC25 mobile computers to nurses across 100 hospitals. Hospitals are facing labor shortages made worse by the pandemic, which puts patient safety at risk. Zebra's solutions, including printers and wrist bands, reduces the administrative burden on the nursing staff and allows for more efficient patient care. Our value proposition to this customer also includes real-time tracking of costs of supplies, equipment and medicine.Additionally, Zebra is growing our long-standing relationship with GE Healthcare, whose solution, Encompass, utilizes Zebra's Bluetooth beacon technology for medical equipment asset management. This solution improves asset utilization and prevents unnecessary equipment replacement purchases. Caregivers also benefit by reduced time searching for medical equipments, which can increase time dedicated to patient care. In closing, the pandemic has accelerated trends that have been driving Zebra's business, including omnichannel shopping adoption, the desire for track and trace across the supply chain and the need for a more digital healthcare experience. Our core markets are vibrant and our prospects to scale newer expansion markets are bright. We are steadily navigating through significant transitory industrywide supply chain challenges. That said, we continue to be as excited as ever about our long-term profitable growth prospects.Now I'll hand the call back over to Mike.Micheal Steele -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThanks, Anders. We'll now open the call to Q&A. [Operator Instructions]