
OperatorWelcome to the DexCom Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Release Conference Call. My name is Dow, and I'll be your operator for today's call. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the call over to Sean Christensen. You may begin.Sean Christensen -- Head of Investor Relations

 



Thank you, operator, and welcome to DexCom's Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Our agenda this afternoon includes comments on the company's recent performance and strategic initiatives from Kevin Sayer, DexCom's Chairman, President and CEO; Jereme Sylvain, our Chief Financial Officer; and finally, an update from Quentin Blackford, our Chief Operating Officer. Following our prepared remarks, we will open the call up for questions.Please note that there are also slides available related to our second quarter performance on the DexCom Investor Relations website on the Events and Presentations page. With that, let's review our safe harbor statement. Some of the statements we will make in today's call may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's intentions, beliefs and expectations about future events, strategies, competition, products, operating plans and performance.All forward-looking statements included in this presentation are made as of the date hereof based on information currently available to DexCom, and are subject to various risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any of these forward-looking statements are detailed in DexCom's annual report on Form 10-K, most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this presentation or to conform these forward-looking statements to actual results.

 



Additionally, during the call, we will discuss certain financial measures that have not been prepared in accordance with GAAP with respect to our non-GAAP and cash-based results. Unless otherwise noted, all references to financial metrics are presented on a non-GAAP basis.The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results or superior to results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Please refer to our tables in our earnings release and the slides accompanying our second quarter earnings presentation for a reconciliation of these measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.Now I will turn it over to Kevin.Kevin Sayer -- Chairman, President And Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Sean, and thank you, everyone, for joining us. Today, we reported great results for our second quarter with 32% revenue growth for the quarter compared to the second quarter of 2020, as well as solid execution on our key strategic initiatives that we will discuss throughout the call today. The $143 million in absolute dollar revenue growth compared to the second quarter in 2020 represents the highest quarterly increase in DexCom's history.We continue to believe that we are early in our story with the potential to drive a far greater impact on global health. Our growth performance is closely related to the progress we've made to advance access on our CGM systems for people with diabetes. And because there is often so much misinformation spread about access to DexCom's CGM in the field, while the cost of our products for people with diabetes.Let me point out several key points that our investors, clinicians and current and potential customers should know. We've advanced pharmacy access in the U.S., where more than 70% of our commercial customers have a monthly out-of-pocket cost of less than $60 per month, and nearly 1/3 of our customers have 0 out-of-pocket costs for their G6 sensors. According to IQVIA, this is less than the comparable out-of-pocket cost for our nearest competitor. The latest research from diabetes market research firm, Seagrove Partners, confirms our conclusion.With DexCom having the lowest customer co-pays of the three largest CGM suppliers in the U.S. for customers on intensive insulin therapy, we've significantly expanded coverage for people with intensively managed type two diabetes, with the overwhelming majority of these patients now having coverage for DexCom CGM in the U.S. We also continue to advocate for equitable access to our CGM supplies for populations that are often underserved.As of July 2021, there are now 43 State Medicaid programs providing coverage for DexCom CGM, including a growing number of states providing access through their pharmacy channel for both type one and type two intensive users. We are building even more on those advocacy efforts in collaboration with several key nonprofit organizations that support the diabetes community. In June, we launched the global movement for time and range to broaden awareness of time and range and its benefits for people with diabetes and their healthcare providers.And we hope that this collaboration effort will lead to future solutions for improved CGM access. Our teams have taken a leading role to drive the removal of administrative barriers that prevent people with diabetes from accessing the benefits of real-time CGM. Along these lines, we are pleased to see the update from CMS in the second quarter to remove the requirement of at least four daily finger sticks for Medicare customers. This will simplify the CGM onboarding process for both customers and clinicians.We've also made solid progress internationally, building from our position of operational strength to advocate for broader reimbursement for G6. This initiative is moving forward according to plan with several geographies publicly announcing enhancements to their coverage of DexCom CGM in the second quarter. Despite these developments, a majority of people on mealtime insulin continue to manage their diabetes with finger sticks.Even in the U.S., a leader in CGM adoption, we continue to believe that the type one market remains less than 50% penetrated and the type two intensive market is less than 25% penetrated. So there remains a great opportunity ahead of us, even in the markets that we currently serve. At the same time, we are generating a growing evidence base for the use of DexCom CGM. And at the ATTD and ADA industry conferences in June, we presented exciting research affirming the benefits of our product platform, including the ALERTT1 trial.This randomized controlled trial was simultaneously published in the Lancet, showing superior health outcomes associated with the use of DexCom CGM relative to our nearest competitor, Flash Glucose Monitor. These conferences also featured several presentations on the use of CGM for people of type two diabetes, including those not using mealtime insulin as well as use in women who are pregnant used in the hospital setting and even conclusions applicable to health and wellness using CGM data.Perhaps the most significant of these presentations was the long-awaited readout of our MOBILE trial, which was also published in the Journal of the American Medical Association. MOBILE is another rigorous randomized controlled trial assessing the value of DexCom CGM compared to the current standard of care, finger sticks, for people of type two diabetes treated with basal insulin. Importantly, the study looked at a diverse user base representative of the U.S. population, and it assess these people in a primary care clinical environments where they are traditionally served. So what did we see?We saw clinically significant A1c reductions for users of our DexCom CGM systems. And perhaps even more telling, we saw a 16% time and range increase for the CGM cohort, which is four additional hours per day spent in the target glucose range. These were results produced with DexCom CGM and DexCom software. We designed the trial with the goal of changing the standard of care for these basal insulin users, a group that we believe includes between three million and four million people in the U.S. alone.With these results, we feel that MOBILE and DexCom have the potential to do just that, and our teams look forward to driving better awareness and access based on the study outcomes and the JAMA publication. We also made great progress in the second quarter to advance the clinical and regulatory pathway for our next-generation G7 CGM system. At ATTD in June, we provided an update on the performance of G7 drawn from our recent clinical trials.Based on the data shown, we expect that G7 will continue the excellent clinical and real world performance and reliability that we have established with our G6 brand. And it will do so with several factors that we believe will enhance our customer experience, including a fully disposable sensor and transmitter, a redesigned app experience and a market-leading 30-minute warmup period. Our G7 continues to progress according to our plans.During the second quarter, we concluded our U.S. clinical trial that will support our iCGM filing and our teams have now shifted to processing the data and working toward preparing the regulatory filing. In addition, we've recently submitted G7 for CE Mark approval. As we previously discussed, we believe that this timing places us on track to begin the G7 launch by the end of 2021.These are incredible achievements and advances from the quarter and a nice step forward to fulfill the promise presented by our CGM technology. And this is just the beginning. There are several additional areas of progress that Jereme and Quentin will discuss based on the great work of our teams in the past several months.So with that said, let me turn it over to Jereme for a review of our second quarter financial performance. Jereme?Jereme Sylvain -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Kevin. As a reminder, unless otherwise noted, the financial metrics presented today will be discussed on a non-GAAP basis. Reconciliations to GAAP can be found in today's earnings release as well as on our IR website. For the second quarter of 2021, we reported worldwide revenue of $595 million compared to $452 million for the second quarter of 2020, representing growth of 32% on a reported basis and 30% on a constant currency basis.As Kevin noted, this represents a record for absolute dollar growth in a quarter year-over-year. U.S. revenue totaled $462 million in the second quarter compared to $367 million in the second quarter of 2020, representing growth of 26%. Our momentum and market leadership position in the U.S. remains strong, and we have been very encouraged with the continued interest in CGM in the marketplace.With the combination of greater depth in our sales force, solid results from our direct-to-consumer marketing campaigns and expanded ability to allow for patients and clinicians to trial the G6 experience, we are beginning to see preliminary results in our effort to further expand our presence into primary care offices and position the company to extend our customer base. International business grew about 58% in the second quarter, totaling $134 million.While the second quarter comp benefited from the impact of COVID on our second quarter 2020 results, we saw good sequential growth momentum as the business once again achieved a new high watermark. The international growth was broad-based across all markets, including core markets like Germany, the U.K., Canada, Australia and the Nordic region. Our shift to the pharmacy channel and sales initiatives in the U.S. and our market expansion initiatives internationally are all progressing according to plan, driving high volume growth in both regions.Volume growth for the second quarter came in around the mid-40% range on a global basis. Perhaps the greatest examples of the international effort during the quarter came from Canada, where we saw public announcements of provincial coverage for G6 from two of the largest Canadian provinces: Quebec, where coverage of G6 was established for people with type one diabetes; and British Columbia, which became the first Canadian province to cover G6 for people with type one diabetes and intentionally manage type two diabetes.These public announcements are representative of our broader strategy to advance access to our technology for people with diabetes. We are leveraging the increasing strength of our operations and driving a meaningful expansion to the total number of patients that we can address via reimbursed pathways. Our second quarter gross profit was $417.1 million or 70.1% of revenue compared to 64.1% of revenue in the second quarter of 2020. We're very proud of the effort that's gone into these results.The 600 basis points of gross margin expansion is another great validation of the growing efficiencies that we've achieved through product design and efficient manufacturing operations. It is these types of efforts that drive the strategic flexibility to expand our addressable market that I just referenced. Operating expenses were $315.6 million for Q2 2021 compared to $213 million for Q2 2020. These results reflect what we previously noted in our discussion of our 2021 plans.We have several areas of investment that we are pursuing, which account for the increase in operating expenses as a percentage of sales relative to the second quarter of 2020. These include the costs associated with our expanded field sales force, the pivotal trial in support of our U.S. G7 regulatory submission, the G7 manufacturing scale-up and global direct-to-consumer marketing. Our strategic investments have also included our efforts to efficiently scale and lower the cost to serve our customers as we envision a future in which we serve meaningfully more people than we do today.Our global business services operations in Lithuania and the Philippines are key examples of those initiatives that are driving great customer service while leveraging our G&A spend. Operating income was $101.5 million or 17.1% of revenue in the second quarter of 2021 compared to $76.7 million or 17% of revenue in the same quarter of 2020. The 10 basis point year-over-year improvement was driven by strong improvements to our gross margin, resulting from the design of our products and the manufacturing efficiencies that come there through.These improvements more than offset the strategic investments that we've made during the year. Adjusted EBITDA was $156.6 million or 26.3% of revenue for the second quarter compared to $122.6 million or 27.1% of revenue for the second quarter of 2020. Net income for the second quarter was $75.4 million or $0.76 per share. We remain in a great financial position, closing the second quarter with approximately $2.6 billion in cash and cash equivalents and great financial flexibility to drive our strategic initiatives.Turning to guidance. We continue to expect solid volume growth across all of our regions in the back half of the year with momentum driven by growing CGM awareness globally. Based on our second quarter performance, we are pleased to be in a position to once again raise our full year 2021 revenue guidance. We now expect 2021 revenue to be between $2.35 billion to $2.4 billion, representing growth of 22% to 25% over 2020. This increase comes on top of our expectations for approximately $10 million of unfavorable currency impact in the back half relative to prior guidance.This revenue increase is primarily a reflection of our continued growth momentum as well as the ongoing impact of our channel mix and international access expansion strategies. We will see a greater revenue per patient impact to our existing base from our international access initiatives in the second half of the year, but we continue to expect the incremental volume driven by these efforts to offset those pressures in our base this year alone.More importantly, this will leave us in a much better position in the years to come. Turning to margins. We are increasing our full year 2021 targets. This includes non-GAAP results to be approximately at the following levels: gross profit margins of approximately 67%, operating margins of approximately 14% and adjusted EBITDA margins of approximately 24%.With that, I will now turn the call over to Quentin for a scale and strategy update.Quentin Blackford -- Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Jereme. As Kevin and Jereme indicated, we made great progress on our key strategic initiatives during the second quarter. It is hard not to be excited about the market potential for CGM after seeing the depth of research using DexCom technology at the recent ATTD and ADA industry conferences. We saw well over a dozen presentations from DexCom's insulin delivery partners, highlighting the clinical utility of their DexCom integrated systems and DexCom's leadership in the field of interoperable solutions.Outside of the MOBILE and ALERTT publications that Kevin mentioned, we also saw several presentations from our DexCom team members as well as independent investigators with outcomes that are very promising for the continued growth of DexCom CGM. In one study presented by our health economics team, we looked at real world evidence, documenting the cost savings for a significant number of patients with type two diabetes using G6, including both the intensive insulin therapy and those who are not treated with mealtime insulin.The results were compelling with the magnitude of cost savings generated for the G6 users being nearly identical to the cost savings we've seen in several of our other pilots. This is yet another data point supporting economic benefits associated with the better glucose control for our customers, and we are excited to leverage this growing evidence base into broader access for people with diabetes around the world. We also continue to innovate our software solutions to enable differentiated user experiences that meet the needs of the diverse customer bases that we serve.Most recently, in mid-July, we received FDA clearance on a real-time API software solution. This is, to our knowledge, one of the first, if not the first real-time API clearance in the medical device sector that enables integration with third-party apps. As many of you likely know, prior to the clearance of our real-time API, our various digital health partners were limited to the display of CGM data on a 3-hour delayed basis through our retrospective API.With this new API, partners who are now invited by DexCom have the ability to integrate real-time DexCom CGM data into the respective apps and devices. This is another great win for our customers, who will now benefit from the ability to see real-time glucose levels in a variety of new displays according to their needs. At the time of the approval, we announced Garmin and Teladoc Health Livongo for diabetes program as early users of the new API solution.In addition, Welldoc and UnitedHealthcare's Level2 are also utilizing our real-time connectivity solutions and their integrated offerings. This is an exciting innovation for us and an example of how we are leveraging our leadership in software connectivity to advance our market position in the growing digital health landscape. On the commercial front, we remain well positioned to drive growth in broader DexCom market penetration in several locations.In addition to the significant access expansion efforts that we began to implement last quarter to enable multiples of growth in our core markets, we are growing our presence in locations that are relatively new to our team. This includes Japan, where we've recently sent our first shipment of G6 systems to our local distributor. Although we have had a minor presence in Japan through the use of our G4 professional CGM, these G6 systems represent the expanded use of our product to serve people with diabetes with our core ambulatory solution.We are incredibly excited to bring our CGM technology to empower people with diabetes in Japan and look forward to developing that as a nice growth market for DexCom. In addition to the strong G7 performance data showed at ATTD in the clinical and regulatory updates that Kevin provided, our operations team is continuing according to plan in our G7 manufacturing development and scaling efforts. We have automated lines producing G7 product as we speak, with a steady cadence of additional lines scheduled to be delivered through the back half of this year and throughout 2022.In addition, the vendors in our supply chain are scaling up G7 capabilities alongside us as we sit here today. We will take what we have learned from these automated lines in San Diego and Mesa and use them to quickly replicate and scale in our new manufacturing facility in Malaysia. As we've said before, this effort will be critical to our ability to serve significant customer populations that we think can benefit from our CGM technology, giving us a clear runway to produce more than 200 million sensors per year and a much stronger presence in a key growth region for us.Our team is doing a great job to advance our efforts in what continues to be a challenging environment to navigate because of the impact of the pandemic globally. We are currently building out the manufacturing facility while also scaling our supply chain, putting us on track to be ready for production in 2022.As you can see from our 70% gross margin this quarter, we're making this progress on G7, while also advancing our efforts toward operational excellence, resulting in even greater improvements in efficiencies to our G6 manufacturing, procurement and distribution capabilities. Overall, as I think Kevin and Jereme would agree, we are very proud of the work of our teams to execute on the ambitious plans that we set forth in 2021.With that, I'll pass the call back to Kevin.Kevin Sayer -- Chairman, President And Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Quentin. I agree with that message as we are all very pleased with the progress that we made during the quarter. To be able to raise guidance across the board, including another revenue raise, with $65 million added to the midpoint of guidance is a great result for the company. We're excited to continue that momentum into the second half of the year. I would now like to open up the call for Q&A. Sean?Sean Christensen -- Head of Investor RelationsThank you, Kevin. As a reminder, we ask our audience to limit themselves to only one question at this time and then reenter the queue if necessary. Operator, please provide the Q&A instructions.