  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the American Airlines Group fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] And now I would like to turn the conference over to your moderator, head of investor relations, Mr. Dan Cravens.Dan Cravens -- Moderator, Managing Director of Investor Relations Thank you, Liz, and good morning, everyone, and welcome to the American Airlines Group fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. On the call this morning, we have Doug Parker, chairman and CEO; Robert Isom, president and incoming CEO; and Derek Kerr, chief financial officer. Also on the call for our Q&A session are some of our senior executives, including Maya Leibman, Steve Johnson, Vasu Raja, David Seymour, Nate Gatten, and Devon May. Like we normally do, Doug will start the call with an overview of our quarter and will update the actions we have taken during the pandemic.

 



 Robert will then follow up with some remarks about our operations and initiatives for 2022. After Robert's remarks, Derek will follow with the details on the quarter and provide guidance for the year. [Operator instructions] Before we begin, we must state that today's call does contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning future revenues, costs, forecasts of capacity, and fleet plans. These statements represent our predictions and expectations as to future events, but numerous risks and uncertainties could cause results to differ from those projected.Information about some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our earnings press release that was issued this morning, as well as our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2021. In addition, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures this morning, which exclude the impact of unusual items. A reconciliation of those numbers to the GAAP measures is included in the earnings release, and that can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website. A webcast of this call will also be archived on our website. And the information that we're giving you on the call this morning is as of today's date, and we undertake no obligation to update the information subsequently. So thanks again and joining us -- for joining us this morning. And at this point, I'll turn the call over to our chairman and CEO, Doug Parker. Doug Parker -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Dan, and good morning, everybody, and thanks for being on the call. We have a lot to cover today, but I'm going to start with the big news since last quarter's call, at least for me, which is that Robert Isom is going to be the next CEO of American Airlines. That change is effective on March 31. I'm going to remain chairman of the American Board, but importantly, I will have no executive duties. Robert will be fully in charge. I will stand as chairman for as long as Robert and the board find that of value. This is terrific news for our team. Robert is going to be the ninth CEO in the nearly 100-year history of American Airlines, which we believe is the best job in all of aviation. And we all are excited for Robert and for American. As you all know, Robert is someone I've worked alongside for several decades. He's an extraordinary team builder who understands the complexities of operating in an airline like American. He loves the people of American, and he brings a fresh perspective to the future of American. I know he's going to accomplish great things, and I'm looking forward to watching that happen, along with all of you. Now what this transition does mean is this is going to be my last earnings call with you all, which is kind of a big deal for me. I've had a speaking role on every quarterly earnings call since I became CFO of America West Airlines in June of 1995. So by my calculations, this makes this my 107th consecutive quarterly call.

 



 So I'm going to try not to speak as much on this one as I have on the first 106 calls, especially as it relates to the company's go-forward plans. Rather, I'm going to let those who are leading American into the future to talk about that future. But before I turn over the stage, I do have a couple of quick thank yous. First is to you all, the sell-side analysts and the reporters, who cover our business. You all have very important jobs covering this crazy industry that we all love, and you do it extremely well. I hope you know I have great respect for what you do and the challenges you face, and I've done my best throughout my career to treat you with the respect you deserve and to give you access in the community you need to do your jobs well. And you've all been extremely fair to me, which I really appreciate. So thank you very much as a blanket thank you to all of you on the line. It also goes to some of the great people that preceded you, former analysts, like Carl Carros, Candace Browning, Sam Bucket; and former reporters, like Terry Max and Susan Carey, and Scott McCartney. Thank you, all. The second thank you is to the American Airlines team which I can't begin to do adequately on this call, but what I can do to somewhat thank them is to tell you all about the phenomenal job they did in 2021. For the year when growing back to meet a huge increase in demand was the most important and challenging objective for all airlines, the American team grew back faster and further than anyone else. We served about 25% more customers than any other airline in 2020, which is phenomenal in our industry. The last time in the U.S. airline was that much larger than the next best -- next highest competitor was more than 10 years ago, and that was done by merging two existing airlines, not through organic growth. This growth in 2021 led us to hire 16,000 new team members last year. We expect to hire another 18,000 in 2022, and our team managed that growth while taking great care of our customers. We posted the best operating performance in our company's history in 2021 with the highest on-time performance and completion factor we've ever had. And we were the second highest to the four largest airlines in all of those metrics, despite the fact we grew back so much further and faster than they did. We're particularly proud of how we ended the year certainly relative to our competitors. Our team had far more customers than any other airline over holidays, and we did so with much less disruption than our primary competitors. American was the top-performing airline, among all airlines in December in each of the key operating metrics. And as our teams performed as well, our customers have taken note. Our full-year 2021 likelihood to recommend scores were the highest in American history. That's an incredible testament to our people, who not only show up every day to operate the world's largest airline, but they do so in a way that welcomes back our customers with open arms. And all this translated to our shareholders as well in a year of very difficult stock performance for the industry. American stock increased 19%, far more than any other U.S. airline. So I want to summarize all this to convey my gratitude to the incredible American Airlines team. And I want to thank each of them on behalf of our customers, our shareholders, and everyone who counts on them every day. It's this performance that gives us great confidence and momentum as we head into 2022 and beyond. So with that, thank you all again. I'm going to now turn it over to our soon-to-be CEO, Robert Isom, to talk about what lies ahead. Robert?Robert Isom -- President  Thanks, Doug, and good morning, everyone. I want to start by thanking the entire American Airlines team for their efforts in the fourth quarter and throughout the entire pandemic. And I'd like to reiterate how honored I am to be taking on the role as CEO. I want to express my appreciation for Doug's partnership and friendship over the years. As you all know, Doug leaves behind an incredible legacy, having opened many doors for our airline and our industry. I look forward to continuing to work closely with him over the coming months to ensure a seamless transition. I'm taking on this role at a very important time for American. Over the past few years, our airline and our industry have gone through a period of transformative change that American has made good use of that time, especially in regard to renewing our fleet, facilities, and network, and making the company as efficient as possible. For fleet, we have dramatically simplified. We now operate just four fleet types. That gives us operating flexibility, reliability, and efficiency. American's fleet remains the youngest in the U.S. network carriers. Our aircraft are equipped with industry-leading Wi-Fi, new interiors, and we've added seats to our 737 and A321 fleets, bringing us more in line with the rest of the industry. For facilities, we have expanded the number of gates we operate at our largest hubs in Dallas/Fort Worth and Charlotte. And we have inaugurated a wonderful new regional concourse at Reagan National, which is historically our most profitable hub. We've also invested more than $200 million in lounges over the past five years with new Admirals Club lounges opening at Reagan National and LaGuardia. New and upgraded airport spaces are underway in New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles as well. And we've also updated maintenance, training, and corporate spaces throughout the system to ensure our team can perform at an even higher level. For network, we're finding more to where our customers want to go. Our DFW and Charlotte hubs are prime to operate more than 900 and 700 flights per day, respectively. Our partnerships with JetBlue in the Northeast in Alaska and the West Coast allow us to create an industry-leading presence in markets that have historically been difficult for American. And our proposed investments in South American carriers strengthened our already industry-leading position in that region. As demand continues to recover and we return to full utilization of our assets, American is poised to outperform. We have extracted $1.3 billion of efficiencies, and we're operating an economic fleet that will provide CASM-X tailwinds as capacity is restored. Based on our current assumptions, we expect all of this to result in a return to profitability later this year and continued deleveraging as we pay down $15 billion of debt by the end of 2025. And I'm excited to hit the ground running in April and build on our momentum to deliver results in 2022. So let's get to the business in the quarter. This morning, American reported a fourth quarter GAAP net loss of $931 million and a full year GAAP net loss of $2 billion. Excluding net special items, we reported a net loss of $921 million for the quarter and a net loss of $5.4 billion for the full year. Our results for 2021 were significantly improved over 2020, but the impact of the omicron variant has affected the timing of a full revenue recovery. We delivered a strong revenue performance in the fourth quarter, despite the rise in infections. We reported fourth quarter revenues of $9.4 billion, our highest for any quarter since the start of the pandemic, and a sequential increase of $458 million from the third quarter. Our cargo team continues to do a fantastic work and delivered record cargo revenues of $1.3 billion in 2021, 30% higher than our previous record. As we've seen throughout the pandemic, each new variance and corresponding increase in cases is followed by a faster recovery of demand with fewer regulatory restrictions and changes in travel policies. Based on what we're seeing, we expect omicron to follow the same pattern. Bookings are recovering quickly after dropping off considerably in early December, though they're still not back to pre-omicron levels. Leisure travel, particularly in the U.S., and short-haul international market, remains very strong and is approaching a 100% recovery. We expect this trend to continue. And interestingly, we've seen many of our customers that have historically -- we've historically called leisure travelers are actually flying for reasons beyond just vacations. They may find a feature of a mountain destination, but they're actually going to work remotely for the week. The lines between leisure and business travel are definitely blurry.. The recovery of international and business travel slowed late in the fourth quarter, given the omicron variant, but we remain very bullish on both. The return of international travel is directly linked to travel restrictions around the globe. As the restrictions fall off, we expect international travel to pick up considerably. We still expect business travel to come back in full, but it will come back in a different way. And by that, I mean the overall mix of business customers, how they travel and how we serve them. As we have shared previously, small and medium-sized business travel remains the strongest segment. In the fourth quarter, small and medium business travel was roughly 80% recovered, while large corporate travel was only 40% recovered. In addition, small and medium business revenue had sequential month-over-month improvement in December, in spite of the impact of omicron. We're optimistic that as corporate travel returns in a significant way this year and as companies come back more fully into the office and get back on the road, we're going to be back on track. But as we're developing our plans and forecast for this year, we're working to build an airline that can be profitable, even without the full return of managed corporate travel. The demand environment has changed a lot through the pandemic. Because of this, we have to be nimble and responsive. We have built agile processes that allow us to deliver the network our customers need and want, no matter the environment. The game has changed and our team is ready. Growing back our network the way we did in 2020 is a feat in and of itself, but to do so while running a reliable operation and achieving strong revenue results along the way make it even more impressive. We entered 2022 with tremendous confidence as a result of the way we finished last year and started the new year. As Doug noted, American had the best reliability of all U.S. carriers in December and the highest annual likelihood to recommend scores in our history. We're very pleased that 97% of our team has been vaccinated or submitted a request for an accommodation, with no one losing their job. We put creative agreements in place with our union partners to support the operations throughout the pandemic and just recently reached new contract extensions for some of our team members to start the year, all of this while flying more flights and more passengers than any other U.S. carrier by a wide margin. To ensure this momentum continues, we have two sharply focused priorities for this year: running a reliable airline for our customers and returning to profitability. Returning to profitability is very much tied to the demand and revenue environment. But as I mentioned, the work we have done during the pandemic has positioned us very well. This includes our cost and efficiency actions, which Derek will touch on momentarily, as well as the work that we have done to refocus our network around our most profitable clients. Enhancing our partnerships around the U.S. and around the world and driving value through the AAdvantage program and co-brand cards has found something that we've done well. And on an absolute basis, new AAdvantage member acquisitions in 2021 outpaced 2019, despite lower level of capacity, and our AAdvantage revenues in 2021 closed in on 2019 revenues. So in summary, we're grateful for the incredible work of the American Airlines team over the past year. We remain optimistic about the return of demand, and we're very pleased with how American is positioned, thanks to the tremendous efforts of our team. And now with that, I'll turn it over to Derek. Derek Kerr -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Robert, and good morning, everyone. Before I review the results, I would also like to thank the American Airlines team for their outstanding work during the quarter. This pandemic has been relentless. And despite the uncertainty, our team continued to show it's the best in the business. This morning, we reported a fourth quarter GAAP net loss of $931 million or a loss of $1.44 per share. Excluding net special items, we reported a net loss of $921 million or a loss of $1.42 per share. For the full year 2021, we reported a GAAP net loss of $2 billion. And excluding net special items, we reported a net loss of $5.4 billion. Despite the impact of omicron that we saw in this quarter, the trajectory of our revenue recovery continues to be positive, and it even exceeded our initial expectations as we outlined on our last call. Our fourth quarter revenue was down 17% compared with the same period of 2019 versus our original guidance of down 20%. This gradual improvement makes it even clearer to us that despite the uncertain demand environment, the steps we have taken over the past 24 months to bolster our network and improve our revenue-generating capabilities are working. On the cost side, we remain focused on keeping our controllable cost down, and we actioned $1.3 billion in permanent annual cost initiatives in 2021, providing a new and more efficient baseline for our 2022 budget. During the fourth quarter, we made the decision to invest in the operation with a holiday pay program for our employees, as well as reducing our peak holiday capacity. These actions did put pressure on our unit cost performance in the fourth quarter, but they led to a strong operational performance over that period. This included an industry-leading month of operating performance in December when it mattered the most to our customers. On the fleet side, I'm pleased to report that our fleet harmonization project is now nearly complete, with our last A321 going into the shop this quarter. This is a full year ahead of our original schedule. We're excited to have this project behind us. In addition to a consistent product and better experience for our customers, the operational benefits of having a simplified and streamlined fleet are already being realized. The changes we have made to our A321s and 737s enable us to fly 2% more total capacity than we could have with the old configuration, thus, providing a unit cost tailwind as we continue to build back our network. In addition to better unit cost, these reconfigured aircraft will also generate more revenue, allowing us to recover from the pandemic even faster. With respect to our widebody aircraft. We continue to have productive conversations with Boeing to determine the timing of our delayed 788 deliveries that were expected to arrive last year. Due to the continued uncertainty of delivery schedule, these aircraft remains out of our near-term schedule to minimize customer disruption. We expect to fly four aircraft during our peak summer schedule. We ended the fourth quarter with $15.8 billion of total available liquidity, which is the highest year-end liquidity balance in the company's history. As we have said in the past, the deleveraging of American's balance sheet remains a top priority, and we are committed to significant debt reduction in the years ahead. Even with this volatile demand environment, we remain on track with our target of reducing overall debt levels by $15 billion by the end of 2025. In fact, as of the end of 2021, we have already reduced our overall debt levels by $3.7 billion from our peak levels in the second quarter of 2021. During the quarter, we made $706 million in scheduled debt payments, which resulted in paying off the 2013-1 AATC B-tranche. In the first quarter, we expect to make $337 million of scheduled debt payments, which will include unencumbering 12 aircraft. For our pension, our funded status improved by 9.2 points to 77.9%, resulting in a $2 billion reduction in the underfunded liability on a year-over-year basis. Lastly, during the fourth quarter, we completed approximately $960 million of AATC financing, and we now have financing secured for all our 2022 deliveries through the third quarter. Our 2022 budget reflects our priorities to run a reliable airline for our customers and return to profitability. Our plan includes ongoing investments that will help build upon the positive momentum we've seen in our operations, while leveraging the cost efficiencies and network enhancements we have talked so much about. We believe these actions will provide a solid baseline for both profitability and free cash flow production when demand has fully recovered. Looking to the first quarter, COVID-impacted demand and elevated fuel prices will continue to put pressure on our near-term margins. In this environment, we expect our capacity to be down approximately 8% to 10% versus the first quarter of 2019. Based on current demand assumptions and capacity plans, we expect total revenue to be down approximately 20% to 22% versus the first quarter of 2019. We expect our first quarter CASM, excluding fuel and net special items, to be up between 8% and 10%. While we expect to be unprofitable on a pre-tax basis in January and February, we anticipate a material improvement and a return to profitability in March as demand returns. As for 2022 capacity, much of our plans are subject to the uncertain timings of deliveries of our 788 aircraft. As I mentioned previously, we moved these aircraft from our near-term schedule to protect our customers. This reduction is worth approximately 1 to 2 points of scheduled capacity for 2022. With this adjustment, we expect to add back our capacity throughout the year and to have full year capacity recovered to approximately 95% of 2019 levels. This, of course, is subject to the future demand environment, and we always have the ability to adapt, if demand conditions warrant. As we look at our costs, like other airlines, we are seeing inflationary pressures in fuel prices, hiring and training for both new hires and existing crews as we build back our operation, including on the regional side. We are also seeing increased starting wages for certain work groups, including vendors. In addition, we are seeing unit cost pressures from the rolling 788 delays, as well as the impact from our ramp and mechanic contract that was ratified in early 2020. Even with these unit cost pressures, our fleet simplification strategy enables higher aircraft utilization and higher average gauge, both of which will help alleviate some of these pressures. As such, we expect our full-year CASM, excluding fuel and special items, to be up approximately 5% versus 2019, with the second half of the year much lower than the first half as we fly in more efficient schedule. For the full year, our projected debt maturities are expected to be $2.6 billion. This includes the cash settlement of our $750 million unsecured notes that mature in June. Without any additional prepayment of debt, we project our total debt will be down $5.4 billion at the end of 2022 versus our peak levels in 2021. With respect to capital expenditures, we expect full-year 2022 capex to be approximately $2.6 billion, which is significantly lower than in previous years and versus others as our fleet replacement needs are complete. Net aircraft capex, including predelivery deposits, is expected to be $1.8 billion, and non-aircraft capex is expected to be $800 million. So in conclusion. We are incredibly proud of our team for their continued resilience in a very challenging environment. With the bold actions we've taken and steadfast commitment of our team, we are well-positioned for the future. Now before we open up the line to questions, I would like to acknowledge Dan Cravens for a minute. Today is Dan Cravens' 62nd call, not quite as many as 107, but 67 is pretty amazing, and final earnings call as part of our American Airlines, US Airways, and America West team. I'd like to personally thank Dan for his two decades of service, his advocacy for both the airline and our investors, and for his friendship. The continuing Dan provided -- or the continuity, excuse me, Dan provided over 20 years in his role across multiple airlines, multiple crisis and a global academic is unmatched. We wish him the best of luck in his next adventure. We will be introducing Scott Long, who will be stepping into Dan's role from our financial planning organization later this month. So with that, I'd like to open up the line for analyst questions.  