
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2021 Abiomed Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to Todd Trapp. Please go ahead.Todd A. Trapp -- Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Sarah. Good morning and welcome to Abiomed's fourth quarter '21 earnings conference call. This is Todd Trapp, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and I'm here with Mike Minogue, Abiomed's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.The format for today's call will be as follows: first, Mike will discuss fourth quarter business and operational highlights and then I will review our financial results, which were outlined in today's press release. After that, we will open the call to your questions.Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that today's call includes forward-looking statements. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements involves risks and uncertainties and are not guaranteed in the future. Actual results may differ materially due to a variety of factors identified in our earnings press release and our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC. We do not undertake any obligations to update forward-looking statements.With that, let me turn the call over to Abiomed's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mike Minogue.Michael R. Minogue -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Todd, and good morning everyone. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, Abiomed has remained on course to advance our innovation and become the standard of care for circulatory support. We adopted and executed, while successfully transitioning from our red, yellow and green phases to Abiomed 2.0. The 2.0 marks our transformation into a smarter and more connected online medical device company with a COVID playbook. We conduct on-site and online training and education and provide patient support with smart algorithms to track real world utilization in the cloud, identify best practices and optimize patient care.For the quarter, Abiomed delivered a company record of $241 million in revenue, up 17% year-over-year with double-digit growth and record revenue across the U.S., Europe and Japan. Within the quarter, we saw monthly sequential improvement in both global revenue and patient utilization. Q4 investments continued, while achieving a 26% GAAP operating margin. Applying our Abiomed 2.0 COVID playbook, we definitively transitioned to the green phase, validated with record number of patients supported in a quarter, in a month, in a week and in a day, all in Q4.Turning to the full fiscal year, Abiomed delivered $848 million in revenue, up 1% year-over-year and 27% operating margin despite the COVID-19 pandemic. We took a disciplined approach to the fiscal year to help us navigate the uncertain environment and achieve our tactical plan. Over the past year, we endured the setbacks of COVID-19 and focused on keeping employees safe, making life-saving heart pumps and supporting our hospitals and patients. We controlled expenses and invested in innovation, new clinical studies and expanded distribution, while remaining fiscally responsible. Our balance sheet strengthened to $848 million in cash, while maintaining zero debt and acquiring an ECMO platform. In addition, our IP portfolio increased to 1,150 Impella patents and 940 patents pending. We achieved a significant number of regulatory approvals and established world-class online training and education with Camp PCI.At Abiomed, our patients-first mindset gives us purpose and courage and we always seek opportunities to lead, manage, adapt and execute. For this fiscal year, I would like to thank our employees and customers for their courage, dedication to patients and leadership throughout the pandemic. We exited the year slightly up in revenue, profitable and stronger than ever before.For today's call, I will highlight our fiscal '21 innovation that will drive our success and momentum into our fiscal year '22 goals and beyond. In fiscal year '21, Abiomed launched revolutionary innovation across multiple patient populations, starting with the accelerated rollout of Impella Connect, our remote monitoring capability, allowing us to go live at nearly 1,000 hospitals in the U.S. Currently 70% of our patients are monitored in the cloud with Impella Connect. No other company in our space provides this level of 24/7 on-site, on-call and online support. This is particularly meaningful in the COVID environment. We have also expanded our global footprint within Impella Connect at 29 hospitals in Germany and 49 hospitals in Japan.Next, the Impella 5.5 with SmartAssist continues to deliver strong results. Within the quarter, our U.S. Surgical revenue grew 46% year-over-year as we expanded this device to 53 more sites totaling 211 sites. For the full fiscal year, U.S. Surgical revenue grew 44% year-over-year, driven by strength in patient utilization. The Impella 5.5 is a revolutionary product because it is minimally invasive, provides forward flow and is a fully unloading heart pump designed for heart surgeons. It is inserted via the axillary artery or directly into the aorta and designed for longer duration support within patient ambulations. The Impella 5.5 has reported comparatively higher survival rates and native heart recovery for the acutely decompensating heart failure patient population, representing an additional 100,000 treatable U.S. patients. Heart surgeons are also enthusiastic about our BTR heart pump, first-in-human experience, expected in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year.Turning to our Abiomed Breethe OXY-1 System. We have now treated 20 patients to date at several sites. In March, I visited our Breethe facility in Baltimore and met a Breethe ECMO patient on support at the nearby University of Maryland Medical Center. The feedback from physicians on this innovative compact cardiopulmonary bypass system has been positive. Customers highlight the ease of use with the simple intuitive interface and the light portable design allowing for ambulation. We will continue to innovate and plan to optimize this technology with smart ECPella software and connected cloud monitoring.Moving on to our regulatory progress. We advanced our U.S. FDA early feasibility study for the Impella ECP, a true 9 French heart pump. As a reminder, in early Q4, we received FDA approval for the expansion of the early feasibility study to 20 patients and have enrolled 10 patients to date. The excitement for PROTECT IV is palpable in the heart failure community and we recently announced our first patient enrolled at Ascension St. John Hospital in Detroit. It is important to note that PROTECT IV was designed by the leaders and best clinical trialists in the field of cardiovascular medicine. It is an on-label, prospective, multicenter, randomized controlled trial that is designed to provide the level of clinical evidence needed to achieve a global Class I guideline recommendation for Impella in high-risk PCI in the future.The intent of PROTECT IV RCT is to leverage and validate the best practices that we have learned over the past 10 years in the PROTECT series and CVAD studies that led to the exclusive FDA PMA approval of Impella for high-risk PCI. We believe the heart failure community's engagement will propel the PROTECT IV study to be a landmark trial for high-risk PCI overall as a new treatment alternative.In the past, we have defined our current addressable market for high-risk PCI as 121,000 U.S. patients. As a result of the PROTECT IV study, we are directly investing this year in outreach referral programs that we expect will better identify the under-treated population of an additional 319,000 high-risk PCI patients that are turned down for surgery and not referred for Protected PCI treatment due to not being diagnosed or tested for coronary artery disease. Since the PROTECT IV study is on-label and spans the heart theme, we now estimate our new U.S. addressable patient population for high-risk PCI to be 440,000 patients.For context, 15 million people in the U.S. have coronary artery disease and heart failure and it causes approximately 1 million deaths per year. Coronary artery disease and heart failure remains the leading cause of death overall, and is the number one cause of death for people with Type 2 diabetes. While we will not complete this study in fiscal year '22, we now have line of sight and a path forward to solidify the new standard of care for high-risk PCI with the goal of complete revascularization and improvement in patient quality of life and ejection fraction.Finally, I want to highlight some of our goals for Abiomed 2.0 fiscal '22 and beyond with investments focused on extending our lead in innovation, advancing Impella clinical evidence and establishing commercial excellence with a premier distribution team. First, we will continue to invest in R&D as we innovate best-in-class heart and lung support technologies that are smaller, smarter and connected to improve ease of use and clinical outcomes. Second, we plan to execute multiple RCT's, including STEMI DTU, PROTECT IV and advance the RECOVER IV cardiogenic shock design with the goal of achieving Class I guidelines overall.In addition, we expect to further validate the safety and efficacy of Impella and the importance of complete revascularization in high-risk PCI with the publications of PROTECT III and RESTORE EF. For cardiogenic shock, positive clinical results presented yesterday at the SCAI Scientific Sessions for the physician-initiated National Cardiogenic Shock Initiative will be published.Separately, the positive results presented by the MHLW PVAD Japanese Heart Committee will also be published. Because these cardiogenic shock patients are difficult to randomize and consent, our best practice protocols are derived from over 10 years of real world evidence and over 100,000 patients with physician-initiated and prospective FDA and PMDA studies in the U.S., Europe and Japan. This new paradigm focuses on improved survival and native heart recovery.And finally, through a combination of our U.S. distribution expansion, and leveraging Camp PCI, we plan to deliver best-in-class training and education on-site and online with the goal of identifying patients' improving outcomes and driving Impella adoption.Before I conclude, I want to share a patient story. Chris Kirkman, a 48-year-old husband, father and Sales Director from Zachary, Louisiana, has a family history of heart disease and has lived with hypertension for 20 years. In December 2020, after experiencing shortness of breath, fluid buildup around his abdomen and difficulty sleeping, Chris visited a local emergency clinic. He was prescribed medication and sent home. Chris' symptoms gradually became more severe over the next few months. When he experienced trouble breathing, Chris' wife drove him to the local hospital, where he was diagnosed with advanced coronary disease and congestive heart failure with poor ejection fraction at 20%. He was told he was too high-risk for bypass surgery and discharged home with a wearable defibrillator.Chris was then referred to interventional cardiologists, Dr. Abraham at Baton Rouge General-Bluebonnet. Dr. Abraham identified Chris as an appropriate candidate for Protected PCI with Impella. When he returned for the scheduled procedure, Dr. Abraham successfully achieved complete revascularization with the help of Impella CP heart pump and Chris was discharged home the next day. During his follow-up exam, Chris' ejection fraction improved to 45%. Today, Chris is thankful to be back at work, and enjoying a healthier lifestyle with his wife and three children.In conclusion, I'm very proud of our employees and customers for their dedication and courage during the COVID pandemic. Despite the challenging circumstances on both professional and personal levels, Abiomed 2.0 delivered one of our most productive fiscal years in my 17-year tenure as CEO. I am confident that Abiomed will not just be a successful company, but will drive a new standard of care for multiple growing populations of high-risk heart failure patients around the world.We look to the new fiscal year with great excitement because we are a stronger company today and have a clear path for execution to fulfill our heart recovery mission. And last, we sincerely appreciate the continued support from our patients, customers and shareholders.I will now turn the call over to Todd.Todd A. Trapp -- Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Mike and good morning everyone. Now, starting with Q4 results. As Mike mentioned, we delivered record revenue of $241 million, an increase of 17% year-over-year with double-digit growth across the U.S., Europe and Japan. We leveraged our Abiomed 2.0 COVID playbook, which allowed us to transition to the green phase, where we grew patients and revenue year-over-year and delivered on our innovation, regulatory and clinical milestones despite the current environment.Turning to our regional performance. U.S. revenue grew 13% to $196 million, driven by a 13% increase in patient utilization. We saw double-digit growth in both high-risk PCI and cardiogenic shock. The pandemic hit peak levels in the first few weeks of January, which impacted patient utilization. However, as COVID cases and related hospitalizations began to decline and we executed our playbook, we delivered sequential improvements in patients and revenue in each month of the quarter. We also set a patient and revenue record in March. At the end of our fiscal Q4, in the U.S., the CP is now in 1,509 sites. We have placed the Impella 5.0 in 663 sites and the Impella 5.5 with SmartAssist is now in 211 sites, up 53 sites versus prior quarter. Lastly, the Impella RP is now in 588 sites, up 19 versus Q3. U.S. reorder performance in the quarter was slightly below 100% and average combined inventory at the hospitals for the Impella 2.5 and CP was 4.7 units per site, consistent with the inventory levels we saw in Q3.Turning to outside the U.S. In Q4, total revenue was $46 million, up 33% year-over-year, driven by strength in Europe and Japan. Our European revenue increased 28% year-over-year due to higher patient utilization in several markets such as Germany, Austria, and the UK and a benefit from the euro-U.S. dollar foreign exchange rate. Similar to the U.S., in Europe, we saw an impact in January when certain countries mandated lockdowns as COVID cases and deaths accelerated. However, here too, we leveraged the COVID playbook, executed on our plan and delivered monthly sequential improvement throughout the quarter. Japan continues to perform very well, delivering $11.6 million in revenue, up 38% year-over-year, driven by patient utilization. We opened 10 new sites in the quarter, bringing our total to 166 sites.Moving forward, gross margin for Q4 was 80.9%, flat compared to the prior year due to benefits from increased production volume offsetting higher material spend and stock-based compensation. R&D expense totaled $32 million, an increase of 26% from the prior year. The value of our ongoing innovation has been evident throughout the past year and we believe it will continue to create value as we invest in advancing the Impella ECP, XR Sheath, Breethe OXY-1 System and Impella BTR and in clinical evidence with PROTECT IV, STEMI DTU and Danger.SG&A expense for the quarter totaled $100 million, up 20% versus prior year. The increase was due to targeted investments we made in expanding our distribution team, incremental advertising and higher stock-based compensation.In the quarter, GAAP operating income grew 8% to $63 million translating to an operating margin of 26%. The variance versus prior year, again, was driven by growth investments and higher stock-based compensation. Net income for the quarter was $57 million or $1.24 per diluted share versus $0.70 in Q4 '20. Net income increased 79%, primarily due to the mark-to-market investment in Shockwave. Shockwave impacted our reported EPS by $0.13 in the quarter.Our balance sheet remains robust. In Q4, we generated $86 million of operating cash flow and approximately $275 million for the year. As a result, we ended the fiscal year with $848 million in cash, up $197 million or 30% versus last year, while remaining debt free. Our strong balance sheet provides us with stability, as well as with flexibility to make continued investments.Now turning to our full year performance. Throughout the fiscal year, we were agile within the COVID environment, navigating the challenges presented by it, but remained disciplined and executed on our goals. As a result, we saw quarterly improvement in both patients and revenue and delivered global revenue of $848 million, an increase of 1% versus prior year despite the global pandemic.By geography, on a year-over-year basis, the U.S. declined 2%, while Europe and Japan grew 12% and 22%, respectively. GAAP operating income for the fiscal year '21 was $230 million, down 8% compared to the prior year, which equates to a 27.1% operating margin. We took a fiscally disciplined approach throughout the year. We controlled discretionary expenses and instituted temporary actions to reduce costs, while investing at record levels in innovation. In fiscal year '21, we invested $122 million in R&D, up 23% year-over-year. Additionally, we added 40 heads to our distribution team within the year with the majority occurring in our fourth quarter. Net income for the year was $226 million or $4.94 per diluted share versus $203 million or $4.43 in the prior year. The 11% increase was primarily driven by our equity investment in Shockwave.Lastly, turning to our guidance for fiscal year '22. For the full year, we expect revenue to be in the range of $990 million to $1.03 billion, which translates to 17% to 22% growth for the year. At the low end, our guidance assumes some continued uncertainty with COVID; namely, unevenness in recoveries caused by resurgences, national lockdowns, new strains, vaccine availability, and adoption. At the high end of the range, our assumptions include vaccines are broadly distributed, leading to lower new COVID cases and a social and economic return to normality, which should have a positive effect on our customers and our business.As we typically do when issuing guidance, I would like to provide some color on our expectations to the seasonality of our fiscal year. In Q1, we anticipate that utilization will remain uneven as we continue to endure the different transition pace across geographies of resurgences, recovery and vaccinations globally. However, we remain confident in the efficacy of our playbook and execution and our ability to continue to treat patients in this environment and believe revenue in Q1 '22 will be flat to slightly above Q4 '21 revenue of $241 million.Historically, Q2 is a seasonally slow quarter for cardiovascular devices due to the summertime slowdown in the cath lab and physician vacations. We believe this could be exasperated this year, given the potential vacations and pent-up demand for travel. So we expect Q2 revenue to be flat or slightly below the Q1 pace. As we transition to the back half of the year, we typically see sequential lift in Q3 based on increased hospital activity and physician engagement. And in Q4, our March quarter, we expect to have our best results as we end our fiscal year.Turning to operating margin. We expect our fiscal year '22 margin to be in the range of 24% to 26% as we step up targeted investments in innovation, clinical evidence and distribution. A significant portion of our incremental investment will be in R&D as we innovate best-in-class heart and lung support technologies and further validate the safety and efficacy of Impella with multiple ongoing randomized controlled trials. We also plan to expand our distribution, accelerate marketing initiatives, and grow our training and education programs.In summary, fiscal year '21 was a challenging, but very productive year for us as we endured the pandemic and transitioned to Abiomed 2.0. We are pleased to have delivered year-over-year top-line growth, achieved GAAP operating margin of 27% and increased our cash to $848 million, all while continuing to make necessary investments to drive Abiomed's long-term sustainable growth. We have come through an exceptionally challenging year. I am proud of our employees around the globe for their commitment and hard work and for their accomplishments. I am very excited for the year ahead as we continue to build the new field of heart recovery.Operator, please, now open the line for questions.