
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by for Cigna's First Quarter 2021 Results Review. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, ladies and gentlemen, this conference, including the Q&A session is being recorded.We'll begin by turning the conference over to Ms. Alexis Jones. Please go ahead, Ms. Jones.Alexis Jones -- Investor Relations Lead Principal

 



Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining today's call. I am Alexis Jones, Lead Principal for Investor Relations. With me on the line this morning are: David Cordani, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Evanko, Cigna's Chief Financial Officer. In our remarks today, David and Brian will cover a number of topics, including Cigna's first quarter 2021 financial results, as well as an update on our financial outlook for 2021.As noted in our earnings release, when describing our financial results, Cigna uses certain financial measures, adjusted income from operations and adjusted revenues, which are not determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, otherwise known as GAAP. A reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, shareholders net income and total revenues, respectively, is contained in today's earnings release, which is posted in the Investor Relations section of cigna.com. We use the term labeled adjusted income from operations and adjusted earnings per share on the same basis as our principal measures of financial performance.In our remarks today, we'll be making some forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our outlook for 2021 and future performance. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. A description of these risks and uncertainties is contained in the cautionary note to today's earnings release and in our most recent reports filed with the SEC.Before turning the call over to David, I will cover a few items pertaining to our financial results and disclosures. Regarding our results, in the first quarter, we recorded an after-tax special item charge of $101 million, or $0.29 per share related to debt extinguishment cost incurred during the period, as well as an after-tax special item charge of $22 million, or $0.06 per share for integration and transaction-related costs. We also recorded an after-tax special item benefit of $21 million, or $0.06 per share related to charges associated with litigation matters. As described in today's earnings release, special items are excluded from adjusted income from operations and adjusted revenues in our discussion of financial results.

 



As previously noted, as a result of the sale of the Group Disability and Life business, in our first quarter earnings release and quarterly financial supplement, Corporate and Other Operations combines the results previously reported as Corporate and the segment previously reported as Group Disability and Other. In our securities filings, the segment previously reported as Group Disability and Other is now reported as Other Operations.Additionally, please note that when we make prospective comments regarding financial performance, including our full-year 2021 outlook, we will do so on a basis that includes the potential impact of future share repurchases and anticipated 2021 dividends, and excludes the impact of any business combinations or divestitures that may occur after today, such as our recently announced planned divestiture, the Texas Medicaid business, which we expect to close in the second half of 2021.With that, I will turn the call over to David.David Cordani -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Alexis. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our call today. Now, today as we meet, our environment remains highly dynamic with COVID-19 continue to affect the world, our industry and our economy. At Cigna, this rapidly changing landscape has only reinforced the tremendous responsibility we have to improve the health, well-being and peace of mind of those we serve. This remains the primary focus that drives our 70,000 coworkers each and every day, and it's the reason we work to continue to deliver for our customers, clients, patients, partners and our communities, all while delivering strong financial results for you, our shareholders.During the first quarter, we delivered adjusted revenue of $41 billion, and adjusted EPS of $4.73 per share. We also deployed significant capital to our investors through share repurchase and the payment of a meaningful quarterly dividend, reinforcing the strength of our capital-light framework.Building on our conversation from several weeks ago at our Investor Day, today, I'm going to talk more about how we are continue to navigate through the current environment to balance and meet the needs of all of our stakeholders, our ability to consistently deliver strong results by executing on our growth framework and the confidence we have in achieving our increased outlook by delivering differentiated and sustained growth for the long-term. Then Brian will share more details about our first quarter results and our 2021 outlook, and after that we'll take your questions.Since we last met at our Investor Day in March, the macro landscape remains fluid. In the US, proposed legislation, as well as regulation and executive actions seek [Phonetic] to expand, extend and further support both public and private programs. Globally, social and political tensions remain high as COVID-19, with its multiple variants, continue to take a toll on a number of countries, such as India, where cases have again dramatically spiked. All of these forces are shaping healthcare and influencing the political and economic landscape around the world. At Cigna, we are navigating through this environment by continuing to innovate for and support our stakeholders with COVID-19 services, while also executing on our strategy to make healthcare more affordable, predictable and simple.For US commercial customers, we are ensuring they get the preventative care they need, including mammographies, colonoscopies, cervical cancer screenings and childhood [Phonetic] immunizations, which today are consistent with pre-pandemic levels, reflecting the continued strength of our clinical programs and proven engagement capabilities. Within Evernorth, for those customers served by Express Scripts home delivery, we delivered further improvements in medication adherence for people with diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure. At the same time, we're also supporting the mental well-being of our customers. We are doing this through our own best-in-class capabilities, where, for example, we engage with oncology patients with comorbidities by spending an average of $2,000 on their behavioral healthcare, we can save an average of $20,000 in avoidable costs. And as we innovate and leverage our strategic partnerships, including, for example, with Ginger through Cigna Ventures, which provides industry-leading on-demand 24/7 behavioral health coaching, further extending our behavioral health access for the benefit of our customers.We're also leveraging data and actionable intelligence to understand the most common long-term complications of COVID-19 infection. Then building predictive models to determine who is at greatest risk of becoming a COVID long-hauler, so we can quickly provide targeted case management and behavioral health services, as well as other resources to help our customers regain their health.For our clients, we are serving as a trusted partner by supplying additional physical and behavioral health assistance to aid the recovery for employees who are impacted by COVID-19, by helping employers build their own communities of immunity by assisting them in launching vaccination clinics. And we're leveraging our data and analytics to help employers determine when and how it is safe for employees to return to work.For our provider partners, we are working to guide people to the most effective sites of care and further closing gaps in care with our clinical teams and our virtual capabilities.For coworkers, we're supporting them in this highly disrupted environment by, for example, providing $200 incentive for coworkers who choose to become vaccinated for COVID-19, and continuing to offer expanded leave capabilities with our Emergency Time Off program to provide flexibility necessitated by the current conditions.And finally, for our communities, we're taking steps to address social determinants of health. For example, we all know the alarming statistics on the disproportionate impact that COVID-19 has had on communities of color. As part of our S.A.F.E initiative, we brought additional underground resources to target communities by launching COVID-19 awareness campaigns, distributing PP&E kits, dispatching our health improvement mobile resources to help to administer free flu shots and provide healthy meal, as well as other support. Similarly, we are leaning into fight breast cancer with disparities, for example, among black women remains startling. To help to address this disparity gap, we again went directly into communities starting in Tennessee, for example, where we collaborated with local partners to offer mobile mammography vans at churches and at other local neighborhood locations.At Cigna, balancing the needs of our stakeholders is deeply rooted in our corporate purpose. We constantly challenge ourselves by asking the basic question what more could we do? To help us stay focus on delivering each and every day for the benefit of our customers, our clients, patients, and our partners. Against this backdrop, the strength of our foundation propels us forward and guides our growth. As we shared with you at our Investor Day, through our three growth platforms: Evernorth, U.S. Medical and International markets, we are well positioned to leverage the three trends we see shaping healthcare into the future, specifically pharmacological innovations, the rising demand for coordinated mental and physical health services, and the changing preferences as it relate to access the care models. And through our proven framework, we are able to drive attractive, sustained growth by delivering differentiated value within our portfolio of integrated, coordinated and point solutions, continuing to work the partner and innovate and working to expand our addressable markets. As a result, we're off to a strong start in 2021 with strong fundamental execution and the strategic and capital flexibility to further our momentum into the future.During the first quarter, Evernorth continue to build on its differentiated and steady performances it has had delivered throughout the pandemic, by evolving the healthcare experience for our customers and clients through continuous innovation and by building, investing and strengthening our strategic partnerships. For example, in January, we further expanded our partnership with Prime Therapeutics by leveraging our home delivery and Accredo specialty pharmacy to drive greater values and delivering on our promise to make healthcare more affordable. We're also advancing our strategic capabilities with our MDLIVE acquisition, which closed last month. This acquisition will expand Evernorth care's ability to further broaden access, lower cost of care and strategically position us to grow in the rapidly changing access to care environment.At the same time, Evernorth pharmacy is also driving affordability improvement. One example is our Patient Assurance program, which caps the cost of prescriptions for patients with diabetes. During the quarter, the number of patients in this program increased by 64% and the value patients delivered from this program is on track to more than double what we achieved last year.Turning to our U.S. Medical platform, we see bright spots in growth in our US commercial portfolio. For example, we continue to take share in the Select segment, which includes employers with 51 to 500 employees, as clients continue to value our integrated, aligned, self-funded medical pharmacy behavioral and stop loss programs. And more broadly, we're driving value by bringing differentiated offerings to market, fueled by innovations and advancements, we are accessing from our Evernorth capabilities, particularly in areas of pharmacy services and behavioral health.Through our willing to strategically partner with innovative companies like Oscar, we're also well positioned to take advantage of market growth opportunities in the small employer market, a market we view is currently being underserved. As a result, we expect to see an uptick in growth in our US commercial platform during the residual part of this year. Additionally, one important impact of the pandemic is that businesses have expanded access to support services for their employees, by acting as a trusted source of information and providing an extended range of benefits to support whole person health, as more and more employers recognize the critical link between mental and physical health.In the wake of COVID-19 more employers are also recognizing the connection between healthy workers, higher productivity and a growing economy. In fact, the National Bureau of Economic Research found that in the US, we benefited by $1.5 trillion of value by having employers play a major role in healthcare. This reinforces the critical role our US healthcare business plays as an important partner to employers and providing access to quality, affordable care for the benefit of their employees.Turning to our US Government business, we are driving strong year-over-year customer growth by continuing to expand our addressable markets. The number of Medicare Advantage customers increased by 11% year-over-year, reflecting the ongoing execution of our strategy, as well as our sustained strong star performance. And the number of customers in our Individual and Family Planning [Phonetic] business grew by 17% year-over-year, driven by our geographic expansion and the introduction of new plans that provide expanded coverage for maintenance drugs to further improve affordability for customers with certain chronic conditions.And in our International Markets business, we are focused on actively supporting our coworkers, customers and partners around the world who continue to be impacted by COVID-19. For example, in India, our Foundation is providing financial support through UNICEF to meet the critical needs on the ground, including additional rapid testing capabilities and expanded access to vaccines. And we're providing Matching Gifts from the Cigna Foundation to our coworkers who donate to charities in India. Staying true to our mission is not only the right thing to do, it reinforces to our clients, our customers and our patients, our commitment to make a difference in the moments that matter most.Our purpose-driven orientation, together with our strategic flexibility created by our service-based model and our capitalized framework that generates significant cash flow from operations, as well as our track record of strong financial performance where we delivered a 15% adjusted EPS compounded growth rate over the last decade, all give us confidence, we will continue to sustainably grow in both the short-term and the long-term in this dynamic environment.Now, taking into account the strength of our first quarter results, we expect our full-year adjusted EPS to be at least $20.20 in 2021 and we remain confident in our ability to deliver our long-term targets of average annual adjusted revenue growth of 6% to 8%, average annual adjusted EPS growth of 10% to 13% and continue to pay an attractive dividend while delivering cumulative operating cash flow growth of $50 billion through 2025.Now, to briefly summarize. We delivered strong first quarter results by executing our growth framework, while harnessing our capital strength to deploy meaningful capital for the benefit of our shareholders, we're investing in our business and leveraging our strategic flexibility to continue to innovate and adapt, all of which sets us up for a sustained long-term success. We remain confident in our ability to continue to grow as we focus our efforts to make healthcare more affordable, predictable and simple each and every day.Now, with that, I'll turn the call over to Brian.Brian Evanko -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, David. Good morning, everyone. Today, I'll review key aspects of Cigna's first quarter results, including the ongoing impact of COVID-19 on our business, and I'll discuss our updated outlook for the full-year. Key consolidated financial highlights for first quarter 2021, include adjusted revenue of $41 billion, adjusted earnings of $1.7 billion after-tax and adjusted earnings per share were $4.73. Results in the first quarter reflects strong top line growth with contributions across our businesses, and first quarter earnings came in somewhat ahead of our expectations. The favorable first quarter earnings were primarily driven by strong Evernorth performance, favorable net investment income and favorable prior year medical cost development, partially offset by non-recurring operating expenses. Our results reflect our ability to deliver in a dynamic, rapidly evolving environment, including navigating the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.Regarding our segments, I'll first comment on Evernorth. First quarter 2021 adjusted revenues grew to $30.6 billion and adjusted pre-tax earnings grew to $1.2 billion. Evernorth's strong results in the quarter were driven by effective execution of supply chain initiatives, continued strong performance in Accredo, our industry-leading specialty pharmacy, and organic growth of our services with deepening partnerships, all while continuing to invest for ongoing growth. Our adjusted pharmacy script volume was $393 million during the quarter, a 9% increase over first quarter 2020. Overall, Evernorth continued its positive momentum and delivered another strong quarter of financial results.Turning to U.S. Medical, we entered the year expecting to see the majority of COVID-19 testing and treatment cost pressure in the U.S. Medical segment in the first half of 2021, particularly in the first quarter. As we progressed throughout the first quarter, we saw COVID-19 case counts and hospitalizations declined more rapidly than we originally anticipated. Additionally, as COVID-19 cases decelerated, we saw an increase in non-COVID utilization. Importantly, throughout all of this, we continue to see key components of preventive care utilize the pre-pandemic levels for our US commercial customers. Taken as a whole, and excluding prior year medical cost development, our first quarter medical care ratio was in line with our expectations.With that as context, I'll now comment specifically on first quarter financial results for the U.S. Medical segment. First quarter adjusted revenues were $10.4 billion and adjusted pre-tax earnings were $987 million. Our first quarter U.S. Medical earnings were slightly ahead of our expectations, primarily driven by favorable net investment income and prior-year medical cost development, partially offset by non-recurring operating expenses. Excluding these one-time factors, our U.S. Medical earnings were in line with our expectations.Turning to membership, we ended the quarter with 16.7 million total medical customers, an increase of 30,000 customers sequentially. As expected, US commercial customer volume declined sequentially due to disenrollment throughout the first quarter, partially offset by new sales in the Select segment. And our U.S. Government businesses performed well throughout the annual open enrollment periods. Overall, results for Cigna's U.S. Medical segment reflect strong fundamentals.In our International Markets business, first quarter adjusted revenues were $1.6 billion and adjusted pre-tax earnings were $262 million, reflecting business growth, favorable net investment income, and foreign currency movements, offset by higher claims costs during the period. I would also note that a refinement to the accounting for acquisition costs led to a one-time favorable benefit in the first quarter of 2020 that did not recur in the current period.Corporate and Other operations reflects a first quarter adjusted loss of $330 million. These results reflect lower interest expense due to lower levels of outstanding debt, offset by the absence of contributions from the Group Disability and Life business, which was divested on December 31, 2020. Overall, as a result of strong execution in a dynamic environment, we continue to deliver value for all of our stakeholders and strong financial results across our businesses.Now, looking forward to our outlook for full-year 2021. As we look to the balance of the year, we expect continued strong execution across our growth platforms and we expect to make continued meaningful investments in our businesses that are responsive to the forces changing healthcare, positioning us for continued long-term growth. Taken as a whole, we are raising our prior guidance for full-year 2021. We now expect consolidated adjusted revenues of at least $166 billion, representing growth of approximately 7% after adjusting for the divestiture of our Group Disability and Life business. We now expect full-year 2021 consolidated adjusted income from operations to be at least $7 billion, or at least $20.20 per share. Within our outlook, we continue to expect a full-year COVID-19-related headwind of approximately $1.25 per share, primarily within our U.S. Medical business. And we continue to project an expense ratio in the range of 7.5% to 8%.I'll now discuss our 2021 outlook for our segments. For Evernorth, we now expect full-year 2021 adjusted earnings of at least $5.65 billion, which represents year-over-year growth of at least 5%. This outlook reflects ongoing investments in our Evernorth portfolio, including investments in Care Solutions and MDLIVE, as we continue to see significant opportunity to bring new innovative solutions to market.For U.S. Medical, we continue to expect full-year 2021 adjusted earnings of at least $3.8 billion. This outlook reflects focused execution in our businesses as we expect to drive organic customer growth and deepening of customer relationships. We expect direct COVID-19-related testing and treatment to decline throughout the balance of the year and also anticipate more normalized non-COVID utilization. And with the strength of the U.S. Medical first quarter results, we will further accelerate strategic investments to support future growth, thus leaving our full-year earnings outlook for U.S. Medical unchanged.Regarding total medical customers, we now expect 2021 growth of at least 350,000 customers. This includes organic growth throughout the remainder of the year in our commercial business, led by the middle market in Select segments, partially offset by disenrollment in national accounts. We also expect Medicare Advantage customer growth in our target average annual growth range of 10% to 15%, and we expect continued growth in our Individual business.Turning to medical costs, we continue to expect the 2021 medical care ratio to be in the range of 81% to 82%, reflecting the impacts in 2021 of elevated medical costs, including the impact of direct COVID-19-related costs and more normalized non-COVID utilization and the repeal of the health insurance tax, effective for 2021, all while we continue to deliver strong clinical quality and overall affordability for our clients and customers. We also expect continued growth and strong margins in International Markets. All-in, for full-year 2021, we now expect consolidated adjusted income from operations of at least $7 billion, or at least $20.20 per share. Overall, these expected results reflect the differentiated value, strength, and strategic positioning of our businesses as we delivered growth while navigating the impacts associated with COVID-19.Now, moving to our 2021 capital management position and outlook. We expect our businesses to continue to drive exceptional cash flow with strong returns on capital, even as we continue reinvesting to support long-term growth and innovation. For 2021, we continue to expect at least $7.5 billion of cash flow from operations, reflecting the strong capital efficiency of our well-performing businesses. During the quarter, we met our previously stated share repurchase expectations. And year-to-date as of May 6, 2021, we have repurchased 14.4 million shares for $3.2 billion. And we now expect full-year 2021 weighted average shares of 346 million to 348 million shares.We ended first quarter 2021 with a debt-to-capitalization ratio of 39.9% in line with our long-term target of approximately 40%. We had $2.5 billion of cash available with the parent at the end of the quarter. And on April 28, we declared a $1 per share dividend payable on June 23 to shareholders of record as of June 8. Our balance sheet and cash flow outlook remained strong, benefiting from our highly efficient, service-based orientation that drives strategic flexibility, strong margins, and attractive returns on capital.So now to recap. Results in the first quarter reflect strong top line growth with contributions across our businesses and first quarter earnings came in somewhat ahead of our expectations. These favorable first quarter earnings were primarily driven by strong Evernorth performance, favorable net investment income, and favorable prior-year medical cost development, partially offset by non-recurring operating expenses. Our strong results give us confidence in our increased outlook for full-year 2021, all while continuing to support our customers, clients, and coworkers. As such, we now expect 2021 full-year adjusted EPS of at least $20.20 per share and have continued confidence in our long-term growth targets.And with that, we'll turn it over to the operator for the Q&A portion of the call.