
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Second Quarter 2022 Abiomed Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Nicole Nath, Manager of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Nicole Nath -- Manager of Investor Relations

 



Good morning, and welcome to Abiomed's Second Quarter Fiscal 2022 Earnings Conference Call. This is Nicole Nath, Manager, Investor Relations. And I'm here with Mike Minogue, Abiomed's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Todd Trapp, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The format for today's call will be as follows: First, Mike will discuss second quarter business and operational highlights, and then Todd will review our financial results, which were outlined in this morning's press release. After that, we will open the call to your questions. During the call, we will discuss certain financial information on a non-GAAP basis. This non-GAAP information is provided to enhance your overall understanding of our current financial performance. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results or superior to results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP results are presented in the tables accompanying our earnings release.Finally, I would like to remind everyone that today's call includes forward-looking statements. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are not guaranteed in the future. Actual results may differ materially due to a variety of factors identified in our earnings press release and our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.With that, let me turn the call over to Abiomed's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mike Minogue.Michael R. Minogue -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive Office

 



Thanks, Nicole. Good morning, everyone. During the second quarter, we made progress on advancing our innovation, expanding clinical evidence and leveraging our premier commercial field team in a challenging environment with COVID and hospital staffing shortages. In Q2, Abiomed delivered $248 million of revenue, up 18% year-over-year, driven by 16% growth in the U.S. and record revenues in Europe and Japan, up 24% and 19%, respectively. The growth was driven by higher patient utilization and continued strength in our U.S. surgical business. We believe Delta and hospital labor shortages had regional impacts beginning in August and continuing into September. As a result, only 75% of our U.S. regions grew year-over-year. For the 25% of the regions negatively impacted, we believe, based on prior experience, we will see recovery in those regions in the future. In Q2, the shortage of hospital staff, especially nursing, was a new dynamic that we had not experienced during the COVID pandemic.As a result, the Q2 revenue missed our internal July expectations. Overall, hospitals today are managing the treatment of the pandemic better, but Impella usage in the cath lab is still impacted by ICU capacity limitations. Hospital staffing shortages in the U.S. caused some health systems to reduce cardiac procedures or temporarily close facilities. Despite these headwinds faced within the quarter, the majority of U.S. regions remained resilient and recorded growth. In Q2, we adapted within the quarter, by leveraging our Abiomed 2.0 playbook, which included monitoring specific trends on new COVID cases and hospital ICU capacity. This gave us the ability to adapt quickly to support high-risk or emergent patients, assist in patient transfer from spoke to hub, or support the ICU and patient with an Abiomed representative bedside or on the phone with Impella Connect.Operationally, we achieved a 24% operating margin while investing a record level of $41 million in research and development to continue to advance our pipeline of life-saving devices. Our balance sheet remains robust with $862 million in cash and 0 debt, and our patent portfolio continues to gain strength with 1,297 patents and over 1,100 patents pending. We believe Abiomed has one of the strongest IP portfolios in the medical device industry, and we will add to it as we continue to innovate. On today's call, I will highlight advances in innovation, progress on regulatory approvals, and how Abiomed's premier field team is providing heart hospital teams breakthrough technology, landmark clinical studies and 24/7 support during a challenging time. At Abiomed, leading in technology and innovation is one of our four principles. During the quarter, we celebrated the twoi-year anniversary of the FDA PMA approval for the Impella 5.5 with SmartAssist. This is our minimally invasive forward flow, fully unloading heart pump designed for heart surgeons with direct or axillary implantation in less than 60 minutes. This game-changing technology has enabled minimally invasive implantation with ambulation for more than 3,000 patients in the U.S. and has achieved greater than a 70% survival in a very sick, cardiogenic shock patient population.As a result, in Q2, U.S. Surgical revenue grew 60% year-over-year. Today, Impella 5.5 is in 27% of U.S. heart hospitals or 306 of the 1,113 hospitals. Furthermore, we are eager to bring this technology to Japan, and have already applied for PMDA approval. We believe the Japanese market is ideal for Impella 5.5 given its ability to provide minimally invasive, longer-term, unloading support, enabling native heart recovery in a country culturally averse to heart transplants and invasive sternotomies. We expect to receive Japanese PMDA approval for Impella 5.5 by this April 2022. In Q2, we also expanded our Abiomed Breethe OXY-1 System to a total of seven U.S. sites and have treated 53 patients, which concludes Phase II of our pilot site product launch. The clinical feedback, primarily from heart surgeons on this compact cardiopulmonary bypass system, has been positive based on the ease of use with a simple, intuitive interface and the light portable design allowing for patient ambulation. We will continue introducing this device at a measured pace and bring our disciplined approach to clinical data and innovation to the ECMO space. On the regulatory front, we achieved multiple milestones. First, we launched Impella RP with SmartAssist at four sites and treated patients within the quarter.

 



This smart pump is the next generation of our FDA-approved right heart device with a sensor and exclusive weaning capability. We also continue to make progress on the Impella RP with insertion through the internal jugular vein or IJ in the neck, as compared to the femoral vein in the leg. This is the preferred placement for heart surgeon -- heart surgeons and allows for early patient ambulation. We expect to file an Impella RP PMA supplement at the end of the fiscal year. Second, in August, the FDA granted breakthrough device designation to Impella ECP. This designation means the FDA will prioritize Impella's ECP regulatory review processes including design iterations, clinical study protocols and PMA application. To date, we have enrolled 26 patients in the pilot EFS study at four hospitals. Based on the interaction with the FDA, we believe the high-risk PCI pivotal study will require a single arm with up to 225 Impella ECP patients at approximately 30 sites. We expect to lock in these details this quarter and enroll our first pivotal ECP patient in March and April, around the same time as our first Impella BTR patient in our FDA early feasibility study.Moving to my last highlight, Abiomed's premier commercial team has positioned us as the leading heart recovery company, validated with our breakthrough technology landmark clinical studies, and 24/7 clinical support. We are also actively engaging the referring community with our direct-to-patient initiative and hub-and-spoke model to bring awareness and treatment options to this underserved cardiac disease, high-risk patient population. Our Impella Connect remote monitoring and 24/7 support has been valuable to the healthcare providers during the COVID-19 resurgence and nurse labor shortages, because we assist with patient management as ICUs become strained. Impella Connect software is now live at more than 85% of our U.S. sites, allowing for the majority of our U.S. patients on support to be monitored in the cloud by the field, the call center or the customer. Outside of the U.S., our Impella Connect software is now live at 37% of our Japanese sites and 14% of our European sites. Today, no other company in this space offers this level of support and expertise. Before I share a patient story, I want to remind listeners that 15 million Americans live with cardiac disease and it is the number 1 cause of death in the U.S. with 875,000 deaths per year. Additionally, cardiovascular disease remains the leading cause of death in women. Now our Impella patient Frannie Argulis, 61, is a mother, grandmother and nursing supervisor from Henrico, Virginia. Earlier in the year, Frannie experienced jaw pain then collapsed at home.Frannie's husband called 911 and the paramedics transported her to where she works at St. Mary's Hospital in Richmond, Virginia. The cardiologists remove blood clots in the cath lab and placed a stent in Frannie's right coronary artery. During the procedure, she went into cardiogenic shock and the cardiologists, Dr. Darren Appleton and Dr. Peter Rowe inserted the Impella CP with SmartAssist to support her left ventricle. While on support, SmartAssist technology triggered suction alarms, alerting physicians to check for right heart failure. Further testing confirmed right ventricular failure and the physicians inserted Impella RP to provide biventricular support. After one day, Frannie's left ventricle function improved and Impella CP was removed. seven days later, Impella RP was weaned and removed and three days later, Frannie returned home. Today, Frannie has normal heart function with an EF of 55% and is back to work as a nursing supervisor and living an active lifestyle with her grandchildren.As a heart recovery patient, her insurer, Medical Mutual, will avoid paying for the most expensive and invasive lifetime procedures that come with LVADs and heart transplant. In conclusion, in Q2, we made progress on product innovation and regulatory milestones, while leveraging our commercial field team and the Abiomed 2.0 playbook in a challenging environment. Abiomed remains focused on disciplined execution and sustainable growth as we continue to pursue our goal of becoming the global standard of care to recover hearts and save lives. To our employees and customers, you are the best in the industry. Thank you for your dedication and commitment to putting patients first. And to our shareholders, thank you for your continued support.I will now turn the call over to Todd.Todd A. Trapp -- Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Mike, and good morning, everyone. In the quarter, we delivered revenue of $248 million, an increase of 18% versus prior year. Despite the challenges of the Delta variant and hospital labor shortages, we delivered double-digit growth across all geographies with record revenues in Europe and Japan. By region, the U.S. reported revenue of $200 million, up 16% versus prior year, driven by higher patient utilization and continued strength in our Surgical business. U.S. patient utilization increased 8% year-over-year, with growth in high-risk PCI and double-digit growth in cardiogenic shock. As Mike mentioned, we believe Delta and labor shortages had a more significant impact on patient utilization within the quarter, which caused us to miss our internal goal. We will continue to leverage our Abiomed 2.0 playbook to adapt in this environment and assist the hospital's ICUs. Our product penetration continues to drive adoption and revenue growth. As a reminder to investors, all of the following details on product installed base is summarized in our quarterly slide deck. In the U.S., at the end of September, the Impella 2.5 and CP have reached 1,549 sites.The Impella 5.0 has been placed in 666 sites, and the Impella 5.5 with SmartAssist is now in 306 sites, up 49 sites versus prior quarter. The full market release of the Impella 5.5 with SmartAssist continues to perform well, with U.S. revenue growing 116% year-over-year. Finally, the Impella RP is in 634 sites. In the quarter, the reorder rate was 102%, slightly above prior year. Average combined inventory at the hospitals for the Impella 2.5 and CP was approximately 4.8 units per site, slightly above the inventory levels we saw last quarter. We continue to see a favorable impact on revenue from sales mix in the U.S., resulting in about four points of growth. Outside the U.S., we delivered record revenue of $48 million, up 27% year-over-year. Our European revenue increased 28% to $33 million versus prior year, driven by higher patient utilization, sales mix and timing of orders. However, Germany was slightly impacted by extended physician vacations, combined with nursing shortages in select areas. Despite these headwinds, our European business delivered record revenue in our second quarter. In Japan, we also delivered a record revenue quarter of $12 million, up 19% year-over-year. Impella utilization remained strong, up 33% versus prior year despite headwinds from a COVID resurgence in the Summer Olympics.Within the quarter, we opened nine new sites, bringing our total sites to 180 out of a potential 350 hospitals. Moving to key financial metrics. Gross margin was 82.3% in the quarter compared to 81.5% in the prior year. The year-over-year variance was driven by sales mix and higher production volumes. In the second quarter, R&D expense totaled $41 million, an increase of 34% versus prior year. Year-over-year growth was driven by investments in small board devices like Impella ECP and XR Sheath. Future heart failure technologies such as preCARDIA and Impella BTR and STEMI DTU and PROTECT IV randomized controlled trials. SG&A expense for the second quarter totaled $103 million, up 30% versus prior year, driven by investments in our direct-to-patient initiative, customer training and additions to our premier distribution team. In the quarter, non-GAAP operating income was $60 million, down 1% versus prior year, translating to an operating margin of 24.4%. This reflects growth investments tied to our continued focus on extending our lead with innovation, advancing clinical evidence and further enhancing our distribution team. Non-GAAP net income for the quarter was $47 million or $1.03 per diluted share versus $46 million or $1.01 in Q2 of '21. The year-over-year improvement was driven by higher interest income and a lower effective tax rate.We had another solid quarter on cash, as we generated $61 million of operating cash flow. Our balance sheet is robust as we ended the quarter with $862 million of cash in marketable securities. Now turning to our outlook. With the impact of the pandemic and new challenges with hospital staffing shortages, uncertain conditions remain. In order to provide full transparency to our investors, we want to give insight on our revenue expectations for the second half of the year. The Delta variant and hospital labor shortages in the U.S. impacted August, September and continues to put pressure on Impella procedural volumes in October. Abiomed started the fiscal year with a range of $990 million to $1.03 billion with growth of 17% to 22% versus the prior year. After a record Q1 and a solid July, we upgraded our guidance to $1.03 billion to $1.05 billion, with growth of 22% to 24%. Given our current visibility to October, which appears to be trending toward approximately high single-digit revenue growth year-over-year, we expect Q3 global revenue to be slightly up from Q2. This assumes some improvement in Delta rates and hospital staffing in November and December.We now expect fiscal year '22 revenue to be in the range of $1.01 billion to $1.03 billion, an increase of 19% to 22% versus prior year and slightly above our original fiscal year '22 guidance. We expect non-GAAP operating margin to be in the range of 24% to 25%. In summary, while we navigate through the uncertainties, we remain focused on investing in innovation and clinical research and operational execution to achieve our fiscal year '22 goals. We remain confident in the long-term outlook for Abiomed as we continue to improve outcomes, recover hearts and save lives.Operator, please now open the line for questions.