
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Martin Marietta's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the call over to your host, Ms. Suzanne Osberg, Martin Marietta's Vice President of Investor Relations. Suzanne, you may begin.Suzanne Osberg -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Good morning, and thank you for joining Martin Marietta's First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. With me today are Ward Nye, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Nickolas, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.As a reminder, today's discussion may include forward-looking statements as defined by United States Securities Laws in connection with future events, future operating results, or financial performance. Like other businesses, Martin Marietta is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Except as legally required, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether resulting from new information, future developments, or otherwise.Please refer to the legal disclaimers contained in today's earnings release and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available on both our own and the SEC websites. We've made available during this webcast and on the Investor Relations section of our website, Q1 2021 supplemental information that summarizes our financial results and trends. In addition, any non-GAAP measures disclosed today are defined and reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure in our earnings release and SEC filings.Ward Nye will begin today's earnings call with a discussion of our first quarter operating performance and market trends as well as our recently completed acquisition of Tiller Corporation. Jim Nickolas will then review our financial results after which Ward will provide some brief concluding remarks. A question-and-answer session will follow. I'll now turn the call over to Ward.

 



C. Howard Nye -- Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Suzanne, and thank you all for joining today's teleconference. As evidenced by our first-quarter results and successful targeted growth initiatives, it's clear that Martin Marietta is off to an impressive start in 2021. Thanks to the company's differentiated business model and proven strategic operating analysis and review plan, what we refer to as SOAR, we remain well-positioned for continued success.As we look to the remainder of 2021 and beyond, we expect to build on a track record of strong financial, operational, integrated, and safety performance. Supported by our team's steadfast commitment to safe and efficient operations, price discipline, and operational excellence, we established first quarter records for revenues, profits, and safety. Both Building Materials and Magnesia Specialties benefited from strengthening product demand. Specifically, consolidated products and services revenues increased 3% to $922 million, consolidated gross profit increased 23% to $175 million. Adjusted EBITDA increased 37% to $204 million and diluted earnings per share grew over 2.5 times to $1.04.We also achieved the best first-quarter safety performance in Martin Marietta's history with companywide lost time and total injury incident rates exceeding or trending at world-class levels. At the same time, we are thoughtfully executing on our SOAR growth priorities to enhance our geographic footprint and grow our business. As announced in this morning's release, we successfully completed the acquisition of Tiller Corporation the leading aggregates and hot mix asphalt supplier in the Minneapolis St. Paul region, and welcomed more than 200 talented employees to the Martin Marietta team. Tiller provides an upstream materials platform in one of the largest and fastest-growing metropolitan areas in the Midwest and expands and complements the product offerings of our existing operations in surrounding markets. Tiller's cultural fit, attracted margins and value over volume operating philosophy directly aligned with our central division operations. We expect a seamless and successful integration.

 



Now let's turn to the company's first-quarter operating performance. The Building Materials business saw strengthening product demand from single-family housing growth, infrastructure investment, and notable heavy industrial projects of scale in our key geographies. Our aggregates, cement, and ready-mixed concrete business in Texas, our largest revenue-generating state experienced temporary disruptions from February's historic winter ice storm and subfreezing temperatures. Additionally, our aggregates and downstream operations in Colorado, our second largest state by revenues, faced a challenging comparison as our results in the same period last year, benefited from unseasonably favorable weather conditions in the Rocky Mountains. Overall, aggregate shipments declined 3%, in line with our expectations, given return to typical first-quarter seasonality factors and the largely non-COVID-19 impacted prior-year quarter. Notably, East Group aggregate shipments increased as the Carolinas, Georgia, Florida, and Maryland, benefited from strong residential and heavy industrial nonresidential activity. This growth offset lower shipments in the Midwest from more seasonal construction activity and reduced wind energy projects.While underlying product demand remains robust, unfavorable winter weather conditions in both Texas and Colorado and a softer energy sector market resulted in an 8% decline in West group shipments. Aggregates average selling price increased 3.4% or 2.5% on a mix adjusted basis. These pricing gains supported by our locally driven pricing strategy, highlight contractor confidence and underlying construction activity in the attractive markets that we serve. East Group pricing increased 4% with both East and Central divisions contributing solid growth, geographic mix from a lower percentage of higher-priced long-haul shipments limited to West Group's pricing gain to 2%.Our cement business delivered strong first-quarter operating performance and shipment growth despite the disruptions from February's historic storm, I'm extremely grateful to our teams, their actions to proactively winterize and take our plants offline, allowed us to quickly return to normal production capacity post-storm. To that effect, our cement operations established an all-time record from monthly shipments in March, demonstrating the robust demand and construction activity throughout the Texas triangle. Mix adjusted pricing grew 2% during the quarter. Annual cement prices went into effect April one and have garnered widespread support in both North and South Texas. We expect our Cement business will continue to benefit from favorable market trends supported by continued market type as in Texas and diversified customer backlogs.Turning to our targeted downstream businesses. Our ready-mixed concrete operations established a first-quarter record for shipments, which increased nearly 27% to two million cubic yards. Large non-residential projects and incremental volume from operations acquired late last year contributed to double-digit shipment growth in Texas, which more than offset weather-related shipment declines in Colorado. Concrete pricing declined 2%, reflecting geographic mix from a higher percentage of lower-priced Texas shipments. Our Colorado asphalt and paving business lost production days from a return to more typical winter weather conditions versus the prior-year period, resulting in reduced asphalt shipments. As well pricing, however, improved 8%. Colorado market fundamentals remained strong, supported by healthy bidding activity and overall customer optimism.Looking ahead, we remain confident that Martin Marietta's attractive market fundamentals and accelerating long-term secular trends across our three primary end-use markets will drive sustainable, construction-led, aggregates intensive growth for the foreseeable future. We are encouraged by the recent initial bold steps to advance much-needed infrastructure investment and a general consensus for success or legislation to the fixing America's surface transportation, or FAST Act in the coming months. With both congressional chambers working on their own reauthorization proposals, we're optimistic that a FAST Act replacement and increased funding levels will be passed before its expiration in September generating meaningful shipment benefits in 2022 and beyond.In the meantime, state and local infrastructure funding remains resilient. Estimated fiscal 2021 lettings for our top five state departments of transportations or DOTs are currently above or near prior-year levels. Keep in mind, our top five states, Texas, Colorado, North Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, are disproportionately important to our business, representing 71% of total revenues for our 2020 Building Materials business. For reference, aggregate shipments to the infrastructure market accounted for 30% of first-quarter shipments, well below our 10-year historical average of 43%.The non-residential construction continues to benefit from increased investment in aggregates intensive heavy industrial warehouses and data centers, broadly offsetting weakness in the more COVID-19 impacted like commercial and retail sectors. Light nonresidential activity should benefit from the attractive drag-along effects of strong single-family residential growth in the longer term, in some regions, we're now seeing early signs of that recovery. Aggregates shipments to the nonresidential market accounted for 37% of first-quarter shipments.Martin Marietta's leading southeastern and southwestern footprint positions our company to benefit from single-family housing growth given underbilled conditions, favorable population and employment dynamics, land availability, mild climates, and lower cost of living in these regions. Importantly, single-family housing is two to three times where aggregates intensive than multifamily construction given the ancillary nonresidential and infrastructure needs to build out new suburban communities. Aggregates to the residential market accounted for 27% of first-quarter shipments. I'll now turn the call over to Jim to discuss more specifically our first quarter financial results. Jim?James A. J. Nickolas -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Ward, and good morning to everyone. We achieved the highest first-quarter adjusted EBITDA margin in Martin Marietta's history. Surpassing the previous record set in the first quarter of 2007. The Building Materials business established first quarter records for revenues and profitability. Products and services revenues increased 3% and to $857 million, while gross profit increased 25% to $148 million. We continue to drive sustainable and best-in-class aggregates unit profitability growth through the combination of price discipline and operational excellence.For the quarter, aggregates gross profit per ton shipped improved 34% to $3.28 and product gross margin expanded 490 basis points to 21.3% despite lower shipment volumes. In addition to pricing gains, lower contract services and internal freight costs contributed to these improvements. Our cement operations benefited from a 3% top-line improvement. However, extended kiln downtime, reduced production levels, and nearly $7 million of incremental energy and other costs all directly due to February's Texas deep freeze led to a 1,160 basis point degradation in product gross margins.While these weather disruptions were headwinds to our first-quarter results, our cement business is well-positioned to benefit from growing demand and tight supply and remains on track to achieve its full-year guidance. Ready-mixed concrete product gross margin improved 520 basis points to 8.3%, driven by double-digit shipment growth and lower delivery and raw material costs. Magnesia specialties continued to benefit from improving domestic steel production and global demand for magnesia chemical products, generating product revenues of $65 million, a 9% increase. Higher shipment and production levels, combined with ongoing cost management, resulted in product gross margins of 43.5% and which matched the first-quarter record established in the prior year.Now a look at our cash generation and capital allocation. The first quarter was a record for cash generation. Operating cash flows of $192 million increased 80%, driven by earnings growth and a reduction in working capital. We continue to balance our disciplined capital allocation priorities to responsibly grow our business. While maintaining a healthy balance sheet and financial flexibility. Our priorities remain focused on value-enhancing acquisitions, prudent organic capital investment, and the consistent return of capital to shareholders. All while maintaining our investment-grade credit rating profile. We continue to prioritize high-returning capital projects, focused on growing sales and increasing efficiency to drive margin expansion.Full-year capital expenditures are expected to range from $425 million to $475 million. Additionally, since our repurchase authorization announcement in February 2015, we have returned nearly $1.9 billion to shareholders through a combination of meaningful and sustainable dividends as well as share repurchases. Our first-quarter earnings and cash generation were both records. As a result, our debt-to-EBITDA ratio stood at 1.8 times as of March 31, slightly below our target leverage range of two to 2.5 times. As Ward highlighted, our disciplined execution of SOAR 2025 is under way.Last week, we completed the Tiller acquisition. We expect this acquisition to be immediately accretive to earnings and cash flow and contribute $170 million of revenues and $60 million of adjusted EBITDA in the remaining eight months of 2021. We financed the transaction using a combination of cash on our balance sheet and drawing an accounts receivable credit facility. Our full-year 2021 guidance remains unchanged from the guidance provided in February and excludes the expected contribution of the Tiller acquisition. That said, we will revisit our 2021 guidance when we report our half-year results. With that, I will turn the call back over to Ward.C. Howard Nye -- Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Jim. To conclude, we are extremely proud of our record first-quarter results and industry-leading safety performance. Martin Marietta is well-positioned to capitalize on emerging growth trends that are expected to support sustainable construction activity both in the near and long term. As we SOAR to a sustainable future, we will continue to build on the foundation that has proven so successful, an aggregates-led growth platform, an unwavering commitment to disciplined pricing, operational excellence, and safety and solid execution of our proven strategy.We're confident in Martin Marietta's outlook for the balance of 2021 and our ability to continue delivering sustainable growth and superior shareholder value creation in 2021 and beyond. If the operator will now provide the required instructions, we will turn our attention to addressing your questions.