  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the American Tower first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Igor Khislavsky, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Igor Khislavsky -- Vice President of Investor Relations.

 



 Good morning, and thank you for joining American Tower's first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. We've posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the investor relations tab of our website, www.americantower.com. On this morning's call, Tom Bartlett, our president and CEO, will provide a strategic update on our U.S. business; and then Rob Smith, our executive vice president, CFO and treasurer, will discuss our Q1 2021 results and revised full-year outlook. After these comments, we will open up the call for your questions. Before we begin, I'll remind you that our comments will contain forward-looking statements and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Samples of these statements include our expectations regarding future growth, including our 2021 outlook, capital allocation, and future operating performance; our expectations regarding the impacts of COVID-19; our expectations regarding the impacts of the AGR decision in India; our expectations regarding our pending Telxius acquisition; and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts. You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's earnings press release, those set forth in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st, 2020, and in other filings we make with the SEC. We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. And with that, let me turn the call over to Tom. Tom Bartlett -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Igor. Good morning, everyone. As is typical in our first-quarter call, the focus of my comments today will be on our foundational U.S. business which represented nearly 58% of our total property revenue and more than two-thirds of our consolidated property segment operating profit in Q1 while accounting for about three quarters of our $60 billion in contractually committed revenue. The overall NOI yield of our U.S. property segment now stands at 11.5%. The sites in the portfolio for at least 10 years, generating more than 20%. These metrics reflect our long track record of driving strong, profitable, recurring cash flow growth in the U.S., and we remain confident in our ability to extend that track record long into the future. This confidence is inspired not only by the exceptional visibility we have into our long-term organic growth rates through our existing comprehensive master lease agreement, but also due to a number of favorable industry trends that we expect to drive our business forward. These trends, in large part, center on our customers' 5G network deployments which we expect to meaningfully accelerate over the next several years, giving rise to a more developed 5G world. On the demand side of the equation, mobile data usage growth shows no signs of slowing. The average smartphone user in the U.S. is currently consuming more than 15 gigabits per month and is expected to be using more than 50 gigabits on a monthly basis by 2026, reflecting a CAGR of nearly 30%. The proliferation of value-added streaming services, mobile video conferencing, and other content-rich bandwidth-intensive applications continues to stress existing 4G wireless network, creating the need for more material additional network capital investments. An emerging AR and VR applications and other next-gen capabilities are contributing virtually nothing to mobile data uses today given the limited coverage and low 5G device penetration, but we don't think that will be the case for long. The 5G network revolution is under way and it's quite possible, perhaps even likely.

 



 The current growth projections for U.S. mobile data usage will prove to be conservative much like what we've seen in the past. The development of 5G-related low-latency applications and services, additional growth from enterprise accounts, and even fixed wireless applications in the home, could all drive usage much higher over time. We expect that the increased availability of spectrum in the marketplace, particularly on the mid-band side will help enable this usage growth going forward. Spectrum has always been the lifeblood of the wireless industry and given the capacity necessary to provide users a true 5G experience, it is more important today than ever before. Particularly significant, in our view, our mid-band spectrum assets, like 2.5 gig in the newly acquired C-band frequencies, as they provide our customers with a crucial middle ground between the attractive propagation characteristics of low-band spectrum and the deep capacity characteristics of higher band. We believe the results of the most recently completed C-band auction underscore the importance of this spectrum to our customers as they look to monetize the benefits of 5G. Importantly, as the carriers emphasized in their public comments after the auction, we expect this spectrum to be deployed quickly. The wireless industry is in a strong financial position and numerous steps have been taken by the carrier to, not only fund the upfront purchase price of the spectrum, but also to effectively deploy it. In fact, we are already seeing sizable increases in activity in our own services segment. And consistent with our long-term outlook expectations, we expect to see higher levels of gross new business in our property segment beginning later this year particularly in '22 and beyond. Part of this uptick in activity is in rural area, as stimulus funds from the government support smaller companies to effectively deploy wireless Internet services and as the major operators continue to fill in the white spaces in their network. The deployment of fixed wireless for households around the country using mid-band spectrum as our customers are planning could also provide further opportunities for us going forward. Taking all of these factors into account, we believe we have a highly attractive, long-term monetization opportunity in front of us. The carriers further identify their network and add more equipment to existing lease sites to support their incremental capacity needs. A significant portion of this growth is locked in to our existing contractual relationships. Other components of the growth may be more variable, either way, we expect to see higher levels of activity in the marketplace, accompanied by increasing wireless capex spend. On this point, analysts are projecting more than $35 billion in average annual capital spending from our customers over the next several years which would represent industry record. Put that in perspective, that average annual rate is more than double what the carriers spent back when 2G was actually deployed. While each of our customers have slightly different strategies to deploy 5G, we are confident that they will be successful in doing so. We also believe that our macro tower-oriented U.S. portfolio of over thousand sites is optimally positioned to benefit from these accelerating deployment. Macro sites continue to be, by far, the most cost-effective RF-efficient network engineering option and are also optimally located to help deliver coverage and capacity for hundreds of millions of people nationwide. As a result, we continue to believe that the vast majority of mid-band deployments in the U.S. for the foreseeable future will be on macro towers. As our network infrastructure was ideally suited for our customers' needs for 2G, 3G, and 4G, we have no reason to believe that 5G will be any different. While we do expect to be unique to 5G is the added use of massive MIMO technology for mid-band spectrum deployments on our macro towers which should provide operators with more dynamic coverage and capacity capabilities. The race to nationwide 5G with the use of massive MIMO will require more fiber connections to antennas, increased DC power and enough capacity to accommodate the size and weight of these more intelligent RF solutions. To prepare for these requirements, we have been proactively investing in more efficient and scalable power solutions at many of our sites. We've also upgraded the capacity of many of our tower structures over the last decade, installed energy-efficient LED lighting on many sites, and invested in site hardening initiatives where appropriate. Simply put, we stand ready to service our customers as they accelerate their 5G deployment. Importantly, macro sites may even be more critical today given the incremental density network that will require to support a 5G architect. And because only one of our existing tenant is on more than half of our sites today, we have a tremendous opportunity to drive incremental lease and capacity utilization as densification initiatives ramp up. As has been our experience, we would expect roughly $0.90 of every dollar we generate from this organic leasing activity will flow straight to the bottom line. As a result, we expect to continue to drive strong operating leverage in the business, along with modest capital intensity, reflecting two of the hallmark of our last several decades to growth. Additionally, we expect to continue to generate strong operating profit margins, including more than 78% in 2021. All of these factors contribute to our confidence and our ability to drive average annual U.S. and Canada organic tenant billings growth of at least 5% through 2027, normalized for the Sprint turn impact and at least 6%, from 23% to 27% specifically, calculated on the same basis. Importantly, more than two-thirds of this growth is now contractually locked in given the signing of our MLA with DISH in the first quarter. Embedded with these expectations is the assumption that our portfolio of wireless tower will be our fastest-growing asset, as has been the case over the last five years when our organic tenant billings growth was an average of roughly 40 basis points higher than our overall U.S. metric. This resilient trend, in our view, is another point of validation. The Macro Tower will continue to be the focal point of modern wireless network, generating the best economics across the telecommunications real estate universe. Going forward, we expect these economics to get even better. Margins will benefit from densification-driven leasing activity and continued amendment while costs will remain largely fixed and capital intensity to continue to be low. Existing leases will escalate in historical rate of at least 3% and normal force churn should be quite modest, likely trending down over time, particularly, once we work through the sprint cancellations over the next few years. We intend to remain laser-focused on maximizing our sustainable cash flow growth from these fundamental 5G drivers. We also believe that the economics of our U.S. business and specifically of our Macro Tower site can be further enhanced through the implementation of selective platform expansion initiatives. Chief among them is edge compute which is starting to come into clear view as true 5G becomes a reality for consumers and perhaps even more importantly, for the enterprise segment. We expect the key drivers of demand for edge compute solutions to be the emerging need for incremental cloud brand locations and lower latency applications processing in a 5G environment. As more and more data processing evolves to the network edge to support those needs, we anticipate new micro edge data center architecture will be necessary to complement the existing regional framework. Select locations within our nationwide Macro Tower asset base which, by definition, RS and mobile network edge, are positioned to play a meaningful role in this evolution. The underlying thesis supporting this lead is the concept net that suggests it has been for the last two decades in the deployment of wireless networks, shared neutral host infrastructure will be the most cost-effective and efficient way to rapidly deploy cloud-native 5G applications at scale. And given that our attractively located tower sites have existing access to fiber and end power while already hosting multiple communications providers, they are natural candidates to represent hub locations for these low-latency wireless edge data centers. Scale deployment of the true mobile edge remains several years away, but in our view, the TAM could be quite significant, running well into the billions of dollars annually. In the meantime, we have some half-dozen ongoing small-scale distributed commute trials at our tower sites, creating a beachhead to larger scale through mobile edge deployment. Additionally, our Colo ATL facility continues to outperform our expectations and we are having meaningful conversations with a number of key stakeholders across the data center and cloud sectors regarding the optimal requirements for the 5G Edge. As we've noted previously, we intend to explore global joint ventures or partnerships to effectively leverage these inherent opportunities and we continue to work through a number of different scenarios in that front. The early data points we are seeing throughout the industry all suggest that this can be a meaningful scalable opportunity that can represent solid upside for us in due time. And we are devoting resources internally to ensure that we are in a position to be opportunistic and agile. In the context of the long-term outlook we discussed last quarter, we believe that mobile edge compute could eventually represent meaningful potential upside. Having said that, we are going to remain disciplined from a capital deployment perspective as you would expect. Recurring revenue for all long-term growth prospects, healthy ROIC, and an attractive margin profile are all prerequisite for us to deploy meaningful capital anywhere, and that includes our efforts on the platform expansion side. Our preliminary assessments indicate that the edge opportunity fits nicely into our framework, but we will need to prove out this thesis going forward. So taking into account the strong underlying baseline growth path we have in the U.S. for the next decade, we are in a position to be thoughtful, deliberate, and strategic with these types of initiatives. Additionally, while we are laser-focused on driving incremental value in the U.S., we expect to have attractive opportunities to deploy capital internationally, for high-quality scaled Macro Tower portfolios are likely to come to market. And while my comments today are focused on our U.S. operation and marketplace, the exact same approach can be duplicated globally, whether it's growth, platform expansion opportunities or margin expansion, the message globally are identical. With our roughly 220,000 site pro forma for the Telxius acquisition, we have an unmatched presence in some of the fastest-growing wireless broadband market period and we can offer to a number of different parties and one-stop capability that is second to none. While we would expect to expand the depth of this presence over time so as not to be complacent, we believe it already gives us a significant competitive advantage. As we've always done on a global basis, we will be seeking to maximize long-term growth and AFFO per share while maintaining attractive returns on invested capital. We also continue to invest in our people, our systems and processes, and remain focused on numerous ESG initiatives while dedicating ourselves to ensuring a diverse and inclusive culture throughout the company. To summarize, I want to reiterate our excitement about the U.S. market. We are in the very early stages of a transformative there in U.S. wireless technology, one that has the potential to fundamentally alter how we live, work, and play while opening them up tremendous new possibilities across numerous industries. Our extensive portfolio of communications real estate across the country sits at the cross-section of the elements that can make this transformation a reality. And as a result, we are positioned to drive compelling long-term stockholder returns while continuing to provide industry-leading service level to both existing and new customers. Finally, I want to recognize our nearly 6,000 employees around the world who are working tirelessly for all of us, achieving the types of results. Rod is going to walk you through now, particularly to this horrific pandemic is really remarkable. And I want them to know just how much we all appreciate their dedication and hard work. With that, let me hand the call over to Rod to discuss our first-quarter results and updated outlook. Rod?Rod Smith -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer Thanks, Tom, and thanks, everyone, for joining today's call. I hope you and your families are doing well and staying healthy. As you saw in today's press release, we're off to a strong start in 2021 as 5G ramps up in the U.S. and as carriers in our international markets deploy significant capital toward their network enhancement initiative. Before getting into the details of our Q1 results and revised outlook, I want to touch on a few highlights for the quarter. First, we announced the acquisition of Telxius which we believe will be transformational for our European business. We also signed a master lease agreement with DISH which locks in attractive multiyear growth in cash property revenue for us beginning in 2022. Second, demand for our towers continues to be strong throughout our global footprint and we saw this reflected in both our solid tenant billings growth and in the high volume of new builds in the quarter. Third, we continue to leverage the capital markets to support our investment-grade balance sheet, issuing $1.4 billion in senior unsecured notes and refinancing existing debt at highly attractive rates. And finally, we made good progress regarding the financing plan for our expanding European business, including private capital. We expect to communicate specific details of our plan prior to closing the first tranche of towers which we anticipate will be later this quarter. With that, please turn to Slide 6 and I'll review our property revenue and organic tenant billings growth for the quarter. As you can see, our Q1 consolidated property revenue of $2.130 billion grew by 7.9% or nearly 10% on an FX-neutral basis over the prior-year period. This included U.S. property revenue growth of 13% and international property revenue growth of 1.7% or 5.8%, excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. These growth rates were right in line with our expectations and continue to reflect the essential nature of mobile services and the importance of our tower portfolio throughout our served markets. Moving to the right side of the slide. Organic growth was once again a significant contributor to our overall revenue growth. On a consolidated basis, organic tenant billings growth was 4.1%, including 3.6% in our U.S. and Canada segment and 5% in our international markets. In the U.S., we had a solid quarter of gross new business commencement as expected and churn was right in the middle of our historical 1% to 2% range. Escalators were 2.6%, impacted by certain timing mechanics within our MLA with T-Mobile. For the full year, we expect escalators to come in right around 3%, consistent with historical trends. Meanwhile, international organic tenant billings growth was particularly strong in Latin America, coming in at 7.9%, and was also quite solid in Africa, where we generated growth of 7.4%. In both regions, we are continuing to see our tenants actively deploying equipment across their network as mobile data consumption grows rapidly. Activity in Nigeria was a highlight once again and we continue to expect growth in that market to ramp up going forward. We also had a strong quarter in Europe, particularly in Germany, where gross new leasing growth was around 7%, driven by accelerating 5G deployments and continuing investments in 4G. In India, we saw an organic tenant billings growth decline of 1.6%, in line with our expectations as we continue to work through the latter stages of AGR and consolidated related churn in the market. On the gross new business side, we saw another solid quarter which was further complemented by contributions from the more than 5,000 sites we have constructed in the market since the beginning of 2020. Notably, Global commenced monthly new business in the quarter, including contributions from new build was more than $11 million, up about 17% versus the prior-year period and representing a new ATC record level. Turning to Slide 7. Our first-quarter adjusted EBITDA grew 13.3% or 14.9% on an FX-neutral basis to $1.440 billion. Adjusted EBITDA margin was 66.7%, up nearly 3 full percentage points over the prior year, driven by continued organic growth and prudent cost controls throughout the business, as well as, the benefits of straight-line revenue related to the T-Mobile MLA signed late last year. Cash SG&A as a percent of total property revenue was 6.6% for the quarter as significant scale across our footprint continued to yield benefits, along with some bad debt reversals in India. Moving to the right side of the slide. Consolidated AFFO and consolidated AFFO per share each grew by about 24%. These growth rates included the benefit of the nonrecurrence of about $63 million in one-time cash interest expense booked in Q1 of last year, associated with our purchase of MTN's minority stake and our Ghana and Uganda business. Normalizing to that item, growth would have been around 16%, the highest rate in several years. This was driven by high conversion of cash adjusted EBITDA, as well as, lower-than-expected cash interest, nonrecurring cash tax refunds and seasonally low maintenance capex. I will note that the cash tax and maintenance capex trends we saw this quarter are largely attributable to timing, so these lines are expected to pick back up over the rest of the year. As a result, we expect that Q1 will be the highest level of quarterly consolidated AFFO per share that we see in 2021. Finally, on an FX-neutral basis, consolidated AFFO and consolidated AFFO per share growth for the quarter would have been right around 26%. Let's now turn to our revised full-year outlook, where I'll start by reviewing a few of the key high-level drivers. First, due to the negative impacts of translational FX fluctuations in some of our international markets, we are reducing our property revenue outlook by $25 million at the midpoint. On an FX-neutral basis, we would be increasing our property revenue expectations due to higher pass-through and straight-line revenue internationally. Second, despite these FX headwinds, we are raising our outlook for both adjusted EBITDA and consolidated AFFO. The adjusted EBITDA outperformance is primarily attributable to higher expected contributions from our services segment, driven by preconstruction site acquisition, zoning and permitting work for our customers, as well as, slightly more favorable SG&A trends in the business regarding our improved AFFO expectations. In addition to the services outperformance, we are anticipating lower cash taxes and cash interest expense for the year. Finally, for our historical practice, our revised outlook continues to exclude the impacts of our pending Telxius transaction and its associated financing. We expect the transaction to close in multiple tranches, beginning with the majority of the European sites later in the second quarter and with some of the German rooftops in the Latin America sites in Q3. Once the assets begin to close, we will update further iterations of our guidance to include these contributions. We look forward to quickly integrating the portfolio and as previously noted, expect the deal to be immediately accretive to consolidated AFFO per share. With that, let's turn into the details of our revised full-year expectations. As you can see on Slide 8, we are now projecting consolidated year-over-year property revenue growth of 7.5% at the midpoint. The decline, as compared to the prior guidance, is due to approximately $48 million in negative translational FX impact which is being partially offset by about $23 million in additional international pass-through and straight-line revenue. Moving to Slide 9. You'll see that we are reiterating our organic tenant billings growth projections across all regions as the global leasing environment remains consistent with our prior expectations across our footprint. We continue to expect consolidated organic tenant billings growth of 3% to 4% in 2021. In the U.S., as Tom outlined earlier, we anticipate a prolonged period of strong growth, driven by 5G-related densification initiatives by the carriers as they roll out multiple spectrum bands. We continue to expect that gross new business activity will accelerate through the year and into 2022. Looking to Latin America. Organic tenant billings growth is expected to be roughly 7% for the year. Despite some challenges around COVID trends in the region, carrier activity remained consistent as customers continue to increase their mobile data usage and carriers respond with incremental network investments. In Africa, we expect to generate organic tenant billings growth in excess of 8%, driven primarily by spending on 4G deployment. We are seeing especially strong growth in Nigeria, where new business trends continue to inflect positively in where our contract structures with key tenants are supporting growth. As we move into the back of the year, we anticipate that Africa organic tenant billings growth will accelerate to above 9%. In Europe, we continue to expect organic tenant billings growth of over 3% for the full year and are seeing solid trends, particularly on the gross new business side. We're especially encouraged by what we are seeing in Germany, where organic tenant billings growth, excluding churn, hit 7% in Q1 for the first time. We expect positive new business trends to continue going forward as incumbent carriers accelerate their 5G initiatives and as a new tenant begins to roll out its network. Finally, in India, we continue to expect roughly flat organic tenant billings for the year. While we believe we're in the very late stages of the consolidation process, we maintain our expectation that we will see elevated churn this year as the post-AGR environment sorts itself out. With that said, we remain optimistic that the long-term growth trajectory in the market should be more favorable, particularly, given that the structural framework of the wireless sector today is probably the most constructive it has been in the last decade. Moving to Slide 10. We are raising our adjusted EBITDA outlook and now expect year-over-year growth of 9.6% despite about $30 million in negative translational FX impact, as compared to our prior outlook. Around $33 million in incrementally expected services gross margin, $3 million or so in net straight-line favorability and about $4 million in lower cash SG&A is enabling us to more than offset the FX headwind. The services activity we are seeing is broad-based and spread across multiple tenants and, in our view, another indication that U.S. network investment activity is in the early stages of a sustainable acceleration. Turning to Slide 11. We are also raising our expectations for full-year consolidated AFFO and now expect year-over-year growth of over 9%, with an implied outlook midpoint of $9.25 per share. Services segment outperformance, as well as, about $13 million in net cash interest and cash tax favorability are driving this upside in enabling us to absorb about $25 million in unfavorable FX impact. On a per share basis, we expect growth of 9% for the year and continue to drive toward our goal of delivering double-digit growth. Moving on to Slide 12. Let's review our capital deployment expectation for 2021 which are broadly consistent with our prior outlook and reflect our continuing focus on driving strong, sustainable growth in consolidated AFFO per share. Distributing capital to our common shareholders remains our top capital allocation priority and we continue to expect to allocate approximately $2.3 billion toward our dividend in 2021, implying a year-over-year growth rate of around 15%, subject to our board's approval. Regarding capex, we are raising our projections by $25 million at the midpoint due to some additional expected U.S. land investments and a modest increase in start-up capex internationally. On the acquisition front, we spent around $115 million in the first quarter and continue to expect to deploy over $9 billion for the Telxius transaction later this year. As I mentioned earlier, we have made substantial progress on the financing plan for our European business and our acquisition of the Telxius asset. This includes on the private capital front, where we continue to remain confident that we could bring in one or more high-quality strategic counterparties to purchase minority stakes in our European business, not only to help us finance the Telxius transaction, but also to collaborate on future European expansion opportunity. On the debt side of the equation, we continue to expect to take our net leverage up to the high 5 times range. Having completed a U.S. dollar-denominated senior unsecured notes offering in Q1, we anticipate that other near-term debt issuances are likely to be euro-denominated. This is consistent with our expected material expansion of euro-based revenues in our business and will enable us to take advantage of highly attractive financing rates. Finally, any remaining funding needs that isn't covered by debt issuances or private capital will be in the form of equity through a common equity issuance and/or a mandatory convertible preferred issuance. Our goal continues to be to fund this transaction in a way that is not only optimal from a capital structure perspective, but also enables us to optimize shareholder return. Turning to Slide 13. I'd like to spend a few minutes on our new build program which has accelerated over the last few years to meet increasing demand for new sites by a number of our key international tenants. As you can see, since 2016 and including our expectations for this year, we will have added over 23,000 sites to our portfolio through new construction. In 2020, we built over 5,800 towers, a new American Tower record and we're off to a great start in 2021, adding nearly 2,000 sites in our international markets for the quarter, a level of activity only exceeded by that of Q4 of 2020. Moving to the middle of the slide. You can see that we are seeing highly attractive returns on capital deployed toward new sites. In Q1, average day one new build NOI yields were around 12%. In our APAC region where we added over 1,300 sites, we saw highly attractive yields of around 15%, and in Africa, where we added more than 500 sites, we average day one returns of over 10%. We're anticipating another record year of new builds in 2021 with 6,500 sites at the midpoint of our outlook. The majority of these deployments will be focused across these same APAC and Africa region, where we expect to drive the most attractive new build returns and where the vast majority of new build activity is for investment-grade anchor tenants. Looking beyond 2021. We expect this trend of increasing demand for incremental wireless infrastructure to continue as carriers in markets with fast-growing populations and surging demand for mobile data work to enhance their network. We believe that our existing global scale, track record of providing best-in-class service levels and strong relationship with MNOs, place American Tower in a favorable position to act as a preferred partner for these large-scale deployments. As such, we'll look to take advantage of the opportunity to continue growing our international portfolio by deploying capital for high-return new build projects. And as Tom noted on last quarter's call, based on the demand we are seeing for new sites internationally, we are targeting the construction of 40,000 to 50,000 new sites over the next five years. Finally, on Slide 14 and in summary, Q1 was another quarter of solid organic growth, margin expansion, dividend growth, and strong new build activity. We were able to secure a transformational deal in Europe with the pending Telxius transaction, signed a value-added of long-term MLA in the U.S., continued to enhance our balance sheet through opportunistic refinancings and remained focused on cost controls and driving sustainable recurring growth. We are excited about the global demand for tower space and look forward to making additional progress on many fronts through the rest of the year as we seek to deliver compelling total returns to our shareholders. With that, I'd like to turn the call back over to the operator for Q&A. 