  OperatorGood morning. My name is Shelby, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Royal Caribbean Group's business update and first-quarter 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to introduce chief financial officer, Mr. Jason Liberty. Mr. Liberty, the floor is yours.Jason Liberty -- Chief Financial Officer

 



 Thank you, Shelby. Good morning, everybody, and thank you for joining us today for our business update and first-quarter earnings call. Joining me are Richard Fain, our chairman and chief executive officer; Michael Bayley, president and CEO of Royal Caribbean International; and Carola Mengolini, our vice president of investor relations. This is actually Carola's last call with us that she is retiring. And I just want to sincerely thank her for all of her efforts, and we all really wish her the very best with lots of love. So thank you, Carola. During this call, we will be referring to a few slides, which have been posted on our investor website, www.rclinvestor.com. Before we get started, I would like to refer you to our notice about forward-looking statements, which is on our first slide.During this call, we will be making comments that are forward-looking. These statements do not guarantee future performance and do involve risks and uncertainties. Examples are described in our SEC filings and other disclosures. Please note that we do not undertake to update the information in our filing as circumstances change. Also, we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures, which are adjusted as defined, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial -- non-GAAP historical items can be found on our website. Richard will begin the call by providing a strategic overview of the business, an update on the latest news from the CDC. I will follow up with a recap of our first-quarter results, and then I will then provide an update on our latest liquidity actions and on the current booking environment. We will then open up the call for your questions.

 



 Richard? Richard Fain -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Jason, and thank you all for joining the call. And thank you, Carola, for your help and consistent support over many years with Royal Caribbean. You all know it's been painful to pass the one-year mark since we suspended sailings in March of 2020 and to keep seeing most of our beautiful ship still sitting in anchor. However, I'd like to comment on some of the dramatic positive elements that we've just mentioned. The big change has been a significant improvement in the extent and the quality of our dialogue with the CDC. As I have said elsewhere, scientific knowledge does not advance well in the vacuum. More and better exchange of information and more and better understanding of other perspectives always leads to a better and healthier outcome. The CDC has recently significantly increased its efforts in this regard.

 



 And we really appreciate, and we would like for undertaking this important effort. Last night, the CDC issued multiple very constructive clarifications and amplification of its conditional sail order. They've addressed many of the items that concerned us in the order, in a manner that takes into account the recent advances in vaccines and medical science. We believe that this communication really helps us to see a clear and achievable pathway forward to a safe and healthy cruising in the near future. But an important caveat is that this is a very complex area, and we only received the letter last night. Furthermore, there are still a great many details to be provided in the future and others that need to be resolved. We need to be cautious about all of those. Nevertheless, we now have high hopes that if these details can be resolved quickly, it could be possible to restart cruising by mid-July. I would also emphasize that the restart does not mean that we will immediately go into full operation. While we are hopeful about restarting, that restart will be gradual and deliberate. Furthermore, our business looks long in advance. So it will take some time for the machinery to get back into full swing. But the letter is a very constructive part of this process. And it indicates both the value of good communications and indicates the CDC's desire to see cruising reopen in a safe and healthy manner. As I said before, we share a common goal in both the CDC and the cruise industry, are determined to do this right. One of our strongest discussion points in these meetings with the CDC has been the data that we've collected from our cruises in Asia and Europe. As mentioned earlier, we have successfully carried over 125,000 passengers with only 21 COVID-19 cases, 21. That's a positivity rate of 0.01%. And as we've emphasized, all of this has been experienced without having the availability of vaccines. Our goal throughout this pandemic is then to make a cruise ship where we can control the environment safer than Main Street USA. We've already demonstrated our ability to do that, and we are now eager to resume life as so many other businesses are doing. And we are pleased that the CDC letter really does reflect an intention to treat us similarly to other industries in similar circumstances. In addition to this particularly positive development in the U.S., there are other activities going on. For example, last month, Odyssey of the Seas, our newest quantum class ship, joined the Royal Caribbean International fleet. Along the Celebrity Apex and Silversea Silver Moon, we now have three brand-new ships each with the most amazing technology to ensure safety, security and, of course, unbelievable guest experiences. And there has been such demand for our current sailings. For example, from Singapore and Quantum of the Seas that we've extended our season there now through the end of October. And, of course, we've also taken additional steps to strengthen our financial position even further, and you're going to hear more about that from Jason. Before I describe all the energy we see and feel it in the group, I want to acknowledge once again the dedication and hard work of our people. It's always been our people who have made us successful, and it's been our people that have gotten us through these past 13 months of living with COVID-19. Everyone has suffered during the pandemic, but working for cruise lines is the real test of endurance and trust and agility. Over and over, our people have passed that test. I'd like to also thank our investors and our travel partners who have been the strongest advocates with our guests over these months of uncertainty. We are also grateful of their commitment to work -- we are always grateful for their commitment to work with us. While a lot of what we're doing right now is directed to a healthy return to service, we're also focusing on how we can strengthen our position in other areas, including on ESG, environmental, social, and governmental responsibility. Of course, this focus isn't new for us. From our partnership with the World Wildlife fund, to support for sustainable destinations, to active engagement on diversity and inclusion, to aggressive emission reduction, our commitment to progress on the ESG agenda is long standing. But we believe strongly, and it's not enough to reflect on what we have been doing, we need to get ready for what's next and plan for how we will meet the challenges in the future. You'll hear more about this initiative in future calls, but I want to take this opportunity to make you aware of this intensified focus. And with that, I'll turn the microphone back to Jason. Jason?Jason Liberty -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Richard. Before I start, like Richard, I want to again thank our teams across the whole enterprise for their dedication and tireless efforts during these unprecedented times. I will now start to discuss our first-quarter performance. This morning, we reported an adjusted net loss of $1.1 billion or $4.44 per share for the first quarter of 2021. While reporting these type of results continues to be painful, we are excited about the fact that little by little, the flywheel is starting to spin. Furthermore, the latest news by the CDC, as it relates to our resumption of service in the U.S., is quite encouraging. During the first quarter of 2021, we delivered memorable vacations to over 55,000 guests through our Royal Caribbean International, TUI cruises, and Hapag-Lloyd brands. Moreover, our teams are diligently working on the health protocols and start-up activities needed to begin operations on an additional 11 ships this summer. While these activities are extremely encouraging, they also put some additional pressure on our cash burn in the short term. Having said this, we are also very encouraged by our customer deposit balance, which as of today, is approximately $2 billion compared to the $1.8 billion that was shared this morning related to the end of the first quarter. Moreover, the latest balance reflects the reduction in deposits related to the Azamara brand which was sold just a few months ago, demonstrating an even larger improvement versus our December '20 customer deposit balance. This improved balance has been disproportionately driven by new bookings versus the issuance of more FCCs. At this point, approximately 45% of our customer deposit balance is associated with FCCs versus about 50% at the time of our last call. Now I will shift my remarks to our liquidity actions during the quarter. As you all know, we pride ourselves on having industry-leading brands, with a world-class and highly innovative fleet and a history of strong financial discipline. These assets and attributes have been instrumental in helping us raise more than $12.3 billion in new capital since March of last year. During the first quarter of 2021, we continued our efforts to enhance our liquidity position and manage our maturity profile. To this end, we successfully executed two capital raises with cumulative gross proceeds of $2 billion. Connected to this, we amended two debt facilities totaling approximately $2.5 billion, which were due in 2022, and extended the maturities for consenting lenders by 18 months. I will highlight that since we are refinancing guaranteed debt with unsecured and unguaranteed debt, we are starting our journey back to an unencumbered investment-grade balance sheet. Altogether, during this quarter, we paid down approximately $800 million of debt related to principal on the amended facilities and the U.K. commercial paper programs that was due in March. Now as it pertains to the cash burn during the quarter, the average monthly cash burn was approximately $300 million, which was slightly higher than previously announced range. This was mainly driven by restart expenses, which were related to the new health protocols and some crew movements. It is important to note that previously announced range did not include any expenses related to the restarting of operations as it assumed a status of prolonged suspension of operations. When excluding the return to service expenses, our cash burn was in line with our previously announced range. Overall, we closed the first quarter with $5.8 billion in available liquidity. As I previously mentioned, we are very encouraged with the latest news, current momentum, and the restart of operations around the globe, but the environment remains extremely fluid. And for this reason, we are not providing a cash burn estimate or the related offsets generated by revenue and new customer deposits that come from returning ships. I will highlight that the burn rate for the ships that are kept in lay-up is expected to be consistent with our previous expectations on a relative basis. Now as it pertains to our debt maturities and in addition to the extensions of the 22 facilities that I previously mentioned, we also completed the amendments to our export credit facilities differing $1.15 billion of principal amortization and waiving financial covenants through at least the end of the third quarter of 2022. After all these negotiations, our scheduled debt maturities for the remainder of '21 and 2022 are $200 million and $2.2 billion, respectively. I will now update you on our business outlook, as I know this is top of mind for many, and I'll start by providing an update on our summer capacity. Over the last two months, we have announced the returned to service for nine ships across our three global brands and have extended the Singapore season for Quantum of the Seas through the fall. These are 176 sailings in the Caribbean, Europe and Asia now represent 19% of our fleet capacity for the summer season. Six of these ships will sail in Europe, offering Greek Isles and U.K. and our easter guests from the U.S., the U.K., Israel, and Europe. These guests will have the opportunity to experience our three newest ships, Odyssey of the Seas, Celebrity Apex, and the Silver Moon for the first time ever. In addition, three ships will cater to the U.S. market offering Caribbean itineraries departing from Nassau, St. Maarten, and Bermuda. Many of these sailings will call on our amazing private island Perfect Day at Cococay. On top of these, Quantum on the Seas will continue to offer cruises from Singapore for the local market. Now regarding TUI Cruises, our JV, they have announced two additional ships sailing this summer in addition to three vessels that have been operating out of the Canary Island since this past November. We look forward to announcing the return of additional ships and remain committed to a safe, thoughtful, and financially sensible resumption of cruising across the entire fleet. Now I will provide an update on the odd bookings. When we opened the first set of sailings for Quantum of the Seas in October of 2020, we immediately saw the pent-up demand for cruising in Singapore. Because of this, we hoped and expected that the same would be true in other markets, and these expectations were confirmed when we launched our new deployment. We have been very pleased with booking levels and pricing for sailings in both Europe and the Caribbean. And as a result, our load factors and revenues are building up nicely. After less than three weeks of sales from most ships, we already have about 30% of our expected revenue booked for June through September sails. We expect to start our initial operations with lower load factors and ramp up gradually over time. On our last earnings call, I shared that we received 30% more bookings in January when compared to November and December. Despite anemic sales and marketing activities, demand continued to accelerate, and new bookings in March exceeded January and February levels by approximately 80%. In addition to new bookings, guests continue to utilize FCCs and take advantage of the Lift & Shift program. Now overall, the booking activity for the second half of 2021 is in line with our anticipated resumption of cruising. And pricing on these bookings is higher than 2019, both including and excluding the dilutive impact of future cruise credits. Regarding 2022 sailings, it is still early in the booking window to provide too much detail. But I will share that our book load factors for the first half of 2022 remain within historical ranges. And pricing on booked business is up nicely versus 2019 when including the dilutionary impact of FCCs as well. While a portion of this improvement is related to our new ships, pricing is also up for the existing fleet. I will close by saying that we are prepared and eager for the flywheel start turning again. We feel very optimistic about our future and are thrilled to see more and more guests around the globe enjoying incredible vacations onboard our ships. With that, I will ask Shelby to open up the call for a question-and-answer session. 