  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, good morning, and welcome to the CVS Health first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Tom Cowhey, senior vice president of capital markets for CVS Health. Please go ahead.Tom Cowhey -- Senior Vice President, Capital Markets Good morning, and welcome to the CVS Health first quarter 2022 earnings call and webcast. I'm Tom Cowhey, senior vice president of capital markets for CVS Health. I'm joined this morning by Karen Lynch, president and chief executive officer; and Shawn Guertin, executive vice president and chief financial officer. Following our prepared remarks, we will host a question-and-answer session that will include Jon Roberts, executive vice president and chief operating officer; Dr.

 



 Alan Lotvin, president, pharmacy services; Dan Finke, president, healthcare benefits; and Michelle Peluso, chief customer officer, and Prem Shah, chief pharmacy officer, both co-presidents of the retail segment. Our press release and slide presentation have been posted to our website, along with our Form 10-Q that we filed this morning with the SEC. Today's call is also being broadcast on our website, where it will be archived for one year. During this call, we will make certain forward-looking statements reflecting current views related to our future financial performance, future events, industry, and market conditions as well as the expected consumer benefits of our products and services and our financial projections.Our forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from currently projected results. We strongly encourage you to review the reports we filed with the SEC regarding these risks and uncertainties, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, our recent current reports on Form 8-K and this morning's earnings press release, and our Form 10-Q. During this call, we will use non-GAAP measures when talking about the company's performance and financial conditions, and you can find a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures in this morning's press release and the reconciliation document posted to the investor relations portion of our website. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Karen. Karen? Karen Lynch -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Tom. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining our call today. We entered 2022 with significant momentum and delivered strong first quarter results across our business. We grew revenue by over 11% to $76.8 billion, and increased adjusted operating income by nearly 7% to approximately $4.5 billion. Adjusted EPS was $2.22, up over 8.5% over the prior year. In the quarter, we generated $3.6 billion of operating cash flow, representing growth of over 20% as compared to the prior-year quarter. Our foundational businesses performed well in the quarter. In healthcare benefits, revenue increased by 12.8% year over year. We achieved adjusted operating income of $1.8 billion. We grew membership sequentially and year over year. Overall medical costs remain consistent with projected baseline trends. These results reflect our strong product portfolio, our deep understanding of consumers' health needs and service excellence. In pharmacy services, revenue increased by nearly 9% year over year. Adjusted operating income grew 8.6% despite a flat year-over-year contribution from our 340B product line. Our results demonstrate the consistent value and savings that we deliver to our customers. In retail, we strengthened our position as a leading community health destination for millions of Americans.

 



 We grew revenues by approximately 9% with approximately 15% adjusted operating earnings growth over the prior year. We grew same-store retail scripts by approximately 6%, approaching twice the growth in the marketplace. Store visits increased over prior year as more Americans see CVS Health as central to their health needs. We administered more than 6 million COVID-19 tests and more than 8 million COVID-19 vaccines nationwide in the first quarter of 2022. Given these results, we are raising our full year 2022 adjusted earnings per share guidance to $8.20 to $8.40. Our cash flow guidance for the year remains strong in the range of $12 billion to $13 billion. We are well-positioned to achieve near-term and longer-term growth goals. We are doing this across 5 strategic value-creating imperatives, which we outlined at our Investor Day. Let me just share a few examples of the strong progress we are making in each. First, we are advancing our all-payer primary care delivery capabilities. Our community health destinations are engaging more consumers with 6.5 million in-person and virtual visits in 2021, approximately 1.5 million visits in the first quarter, up nearly 35% from the prior year. Our virtual care solution represents one of many care delivery channels and lower-cost sites of high quality of care. We will be broadening our virtual care services in the next 30 days. More people are accessing healthcare using digitally enabled solutions. Pre-pandemic back in 2019, we supported 10,000 virtual mental health visits. Last year, we supported 10 million virtual visits just for mental health. This dramatic increase demonstrates the power of our ability to drive innovation at scale. Second, we are optimizing our retail portfolio that will be comprised of three models: advanced primary care clinics, enhanced health hub locations, and our traditional CVS pharmacy locations. As of today, we have closed approximately 100 stores out of the 300 planned for this year and the 900 planned by the end of 2024. Our early experience suggests we are retaining nearly 70% of the prescription volume within our network, demonstrating strong evidence of our value to consumers. Additionally, we retained more than 95% of colleagues and redeployed them to other CVS locations. Third, we are diversifying our growth portfolio with new health services. We are expanding our capabilities in home health as we prepare for the 2023 launch of a post-acute transitions pilot for our Aetna membership in select geographies. Partnering in technology and home-based care will allow us to reduce readmissions and improve care for our customers at this critical juncture on their path to recovery. As we broaden our capabilities to create new sources of value, we continually evaluate our portfolio for nonstrategic assets. Our recently announced sale of PayFlex and selected assets from our international businesses are two recent examples of our actions. These transactions are in line with our commitment to invest in areas that are aligned with our strategy. Fourth, we are focused on our digital-first technology-forward approach. We serve nearly 44 million unique digital customers as of the end of the first quarter, up by over 7 million customers since our Investor Day, a testament to the value and ease of our digital offering. Digital customers are omnichannel, and on average visit CVS Health two times more often than traditional customers. We also continue to expand our digital first health dashboard offering. This dashboard makes managing your family's health more seamless, convenient, and personalized. It does so by putting critical health information into one place, health records, pharmacy medications, and next best actions. We have 5 million active health dashboard users, up over 25% in the past quarter, and we will continue to enhance connectivity to more services later this year. Finally, we are making progress serving our consumers wherever and whenever they receive healthcare. In the first quarter, we launched a new fulfillment option for consumers as part of our omnichannel health experience. Consumers can purchase health and wellness products online with an option for free same-day pickup that will be available in approximately 6,000 CVS community health destinations later this year. We are partnering with Google and Microsoft in ways that deliver real benefits to consumers. For example, MinuteClinic scheduling is now integrated into Google Search, driving new and more convenient appointment bookings. In our specialty pharmacy, we are using Microsoft text analytics and robotics to automate the 40% of prescriptions that are still paper or fax-based, making it easier and faster for us to fill the patient's prescription. We are increasingly using technology to improve our business process and reduce costs. Here are just two examples. Our specialty intelligent medication monitoring and adherence engine uses machine learning to help our most at-risk patients by predicting the likelihood of individual patients becoming nonadherent to their medication. This approach then prompts ways in which we can coach and help them maintain their overall health. Also, using machine learning and robotics, we can now resolve a wide range of prescription drug claims, which previously require the attention of our pharmacists, freeing them up to spend time with patients. This advanced approach reduces overall cost and improve the patient experience. These five strategic imperatives taken together place the consumer at the center of everything we do. Consumer value is behind the integration of our businesses and we are making steady and real progress. Ultimately, it's the hard work and commitment of our dedicated colleagues that makes our strategy and results achievable. At CVS Health, we are committed to fostering a culture of values. We have made increasing workforce representation, promoting the inclusion and belonging and equitable access to growth and development our priority. Our commitment to shareholders, customers, and communities remains steadfast. In our 2021 environmental social governance report released last month, we highlighted our sharpened focus on sustainable business practices and our priority to advance health equity in America. You can find our report on our website. Our work to fundamentally reshape the delivery of healthcare in our country is well underway. Before I turn it over to Sean, I am pleased to announce we have named a new chief medical officer. Dr. Sree Chaguturu. Also, I'd like to acknowledge Jon Roberts, who will be retiring at the end of June and thank him for his many contributions to CVS Health over his 42-year career at our company. I am grateful to our dedicated colleagues who continue to deliver every day, helping millions of Americans and bringing their heart to every moment of our customers' health. Let me now turn it over to Shawn for a deeper look into our operational results and outlook for the remainder of the year.Shawn Guertin -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Karen, and good morning, everyone. Our first quarter results reflect strong performance from all our core business segments with continued momentum in revenue growth, cash flow generation and adjusted earnings-per-share growth, positioning us to increase our 2022 adjusted EPS guidance to a range of $8.20 to $8.40 per share. As we continue making progress toward our financial targets, we remain focused on growth, operational execution, and supporting the communities we serve. A few highlights of total company performance. First quarter revenues of $76.8 billion increased by 11.2% year over year, reflecting robust growth across all business segments. We delivered adjusted operating income of approximately $4.5 billion and adjusted EPS of $2.22, representing an increase of 6.6% and 8.8% versus prior year, respectively. Our first quarter adjusted EPS performance reflects both a higher adjusted operating income contribution and lower interest expense versus prior year due to our proactive deleveraging campaign in 2021. Importantly, our first quarter 2022 adjusted EPS was impacted by $75 million of net realized capital losses, which lowered adjusted EPS performance by $0.04. Of the losses noted, approximately $40 million or $0.02 per share related to write-downs of sovereign bonds in Ukraine and Belarus. Turning to the healthcare benefits segment. First quarter revenue of $23.1 billion increased by 12.8% year over year, driven by membership growth across all product lines. We delivered sequential membership growth of over 670,000, reflecting growth across all product lines. We continue to be pleased with the performance of our Medicare franchise, which has been a key growth engine over the years. Medicare Advantage grew about 200,000 members sequentially, up 6.7%. Our momentum in dual-eligible plans enrollment also continued into the first quarter, growing 28% sequentially. In our commercial business, a strong national account selling season contributed to membership growth, along with growth in commercial risk membership, driven by group commercial and our reentry into the individual exchange marketplace. Adjusted operating income of $1.8 billion was down slightly as compared to the prior year, as the previously mentioned net realized capital losses impacted growth, along with the continued progression toward normalized medical cost trends. Our medical benefit ratio of 83.5% increased approximately 30 basis points year over year, reflective of the same continued progression toward normalized total medical costs. In total, medical cost trends in our commercial business remain in line with pre-pandemic trended baselines, with government remaining slightly lower than pre-pandemic baselines. Consolidated days claims payable at the end of the quarter was 51.7, up 2.6 days sequentially as we brought on new government and other membership in the first quarter. Overall, we remain confident in the adequacy of our reserves. In pharmacy services, we continue to achieve strong revenue and adjusted operating income growth. This is a natural outcome from our execution, delivering industry-leading drug trend on behalf of our clients, providing leading specialty management capabilities and outstanding customer service. During the first quarter, revenue of $39.5 billion increased by 8.6% year over year, driven by pharmacy claims growth, growth in specialty pharmacy and brand inflation, partially offset by the impact of continued client price improvements. Total pharmacy membership was roughly flat from year-end at 110 million members as underlying growth in commercial and other government lives helped to offset significant membership losses from the California Medicaid carve-out that started this year. Total pharmacy claims processed increased by 5.8% above prior year, primarily attributable to new business in 2022. Currently, we are approximately 60% through renewals for the 2023 selling season with over 98% core client retention. Adjusted operating income of $1.6 billion grew 8.6% year over year, driven by improved purchasing economics, reflecting increased contribution from the products and services of our group purchasing organization and specialty pharmacy, partially offset by continued client price improvements and increased expenses to onboard new business at the beginning of the year. As Karen mentioned, our 340B product lines did not grow inside the quarter. In our retail/long-term care segment, we delivered strong revenue and adjusted operating income growth versus prior year. First quarter revenue of $25.4 billion grew 9.2% year over year, largely due to increased prescription and front store volume, including the sale of COVID-19 OTC test kits. Adjusted operating income of $1.6 billion grew 15.1% versus prior year, driven by a few key components: strength in pharmacy and front-store sales, the administration of COVID-19 vaccines, and demand for over-the-counter test kits and related treatment categories, particularly at the beginning of the quarter when omicron incidence was high. These positive factors were partially offset by the impacts of ongoing but stable reimbursement pressure, business investments, including the minimum wage increase and store improvements, and investments in store labor as we were consciously slow to draw down staffing in response to declining omicron case levels to ensure we had sufficient capacity to meet consumer health needs. Our liquidity and capital position remained strong at the end of the first quarter, generating cash flow from operations of $3.6 billion and ending the quarter with $3 billion of cash at the parent and unrestricted subsidiaries. We remain committed to maintaining our investment-grade ratings while also having the flexibility to deploy capital strategically for capability-focused M&A. The announced sales of our PayFlex and Aetna international business in Thailand are expected to provide us with additional deployable capital later this year. We repurchased approximately 19.1 million shares of common stock during the three months ended March 31st, 2022, marking the first time the company has repurchased shares of its common stock since 2017. We also increased the quarterly shareholder dividend by 10% effective with the February 1st, 2022 dividend distribution, which resulted in the return of $722 million to shareholders through dividends during the three months ended March 31st, 2022. In March, we also announced we had entered into an agreement with the State of Florida to resolve claims dating back more than a decade related to opioid medications. Under the agreement, we will settle all opioid claims by Florida for $484 million to be paid over a period of 18 years. As a result, upon satisfaction of the settlement terms by the state, CVS will be released from the pending litigation in Florida. Associated with this settlement, we have taken a charge of approximately $370 million after tax in our first quarter 2022 financials, which has been excluded from our adjusted operating metrics. As a result of our first quarter performance, we are raising our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance to $8.20 to $8.40, which represents 3.5% to 6% growth versus our 2021 adjusted earnings per share baseline. The increase reflects the favorable impact of prior year's development net of realized capital losses experienced in our healthcare benefits business, both of which we do not forecast. As such, we are raising full year healthcare benefits guidance as follows: membership increases to a range of 24 million to 24.3 million members; revenue increases to a range of $89.3 million to $90.8 billion; adjusted operating income guidance increases by $180 million at the midpoint to $5.94 billion to $6.04 billion. Similarly, MBR guidance is updated to 83.5% to 84.5% to reflect our first quarter experience. We are maintaining all other guidance shared during our fourth quarter earnings call. Our updated guidance now reflects the assumption that a fourth COVID-19 booster will be administered to adults aged 50 and older and to certain immunocompromised individuals as per the guidelines set forth by the CDC. Administration of a fourth booster is expected to have a net neutral impact to our enterprise, representing an incremental cost to our health benefits segment, but helping to maintain our full year outlook for our retail segment by offsetting first quarter 2022 expense pressures previously mentioned. As we evaluate the progression of earnings for the remainder of the year, we would remind investors of our prior statements that we expect 2022 earnings to be modestly higher in the first half of the year. Similar to 2021 earnings progression, we currently project that 47% to 49% of adjusted EPS will occur in the back half of 2022, which we project will be fairly evenly split between the third and fourth quarters. You will find additional details regarding our updated guidance in the slide presentation we posted to our website this morning. We continue to anticipate strong cash from operations in 2022 between $12 billion and $13 billion, and capital expenditures in the range of $2.8 billion to $3 billion as we invest in technology and digital enhancements to improve the consumer experience as well as our community locations. Full year deployable free cash will benefit from our recent divestiture activity while any earnings impact from these divestitures are incorporated into our updated guidance ranges. To conclude, we are encouraged by our strong first quarter results and improved 2022 outlook, particularly at this early stage in the year as we continue to sharpen our focus and execute our strategy. As a leader and trusted partner in healthcare, we strive to deliver a superior healthcare experience for our consumers through lowering the cost of care, improving access, and building engagement and convenience to our consumers and their communities. We will now open the call to your questions. Operator? 