
OperatorGood day and welcome to the Lam Research Corporation's March 2021 Quarter Financial Conference Call.At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Tina Correia, Corporate Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead.Tina Correia -- Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate FinanceThank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the Lam Research quarterly earnings conference call. With me today are Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. During today's call, we will share our overview on the business environment and we'll review our financial results for the March 2021 quarter and our outlook for the June 2021 quarter. The press release detailing our financial results was distributed a little after 1:00 p.m. Pacific Time this afternoon. The release can also be found on the Investor Relations section of the company's website along with the presentation slides that accompany today's call.Today's presentation and Q&A includes forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the risk factors disclosed in our SEC public filings. Please see accompanying slides in the presentation for additional information. Today's discussion of our financial results will be presented on a non-GAAP financial basis unless otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results can be found in today's earnings press release. This call is scheduled to last until 3:00 p.m. Pacific Time. A replay of this call will be made available later this afternoon on our website.And with that, I'll hand the call over to Tim.Timothy M. Archer -- President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorGreat. Thank you, Tina, and thank you to everyone joining the call today. Lam posted excellent results in the March quarter, with record revenues from both systems and install-base business, as well as record cash flow from operations and record earnings per share. Our performance reflects solid execution by Lam employees and our partners worldwide despite ongoing COVID-19 related impacts. The investments we are making in manufacturing and supply chain resiliency are enabling us to support our customers needs amid a broad based strengthening in semiconductor demand. We are very optimistic on our positioning and see continued strong growth for Lam in the future.Let me first begin by updating our expectations for wafer fabrication equipment spending. Since our last earnings call, we have seen WFE spending plans increase for the calendar year. Our outlook for 2021 WFE is trending above $75 billion, and we now believe the WFE spending in the second half of the calendar year will be higher than the first half across all device segments. Several factors are at play in driving this robust WFE growth.First, secular tailwinds such as AI, 5G and IoT continue to strengthen. And over the past year, COVID-19 related impacts, like work and learn from home has accelerated adoption of these technologies. Second, the complexity of manufacturing advanced semiconductor devices continues to increase at a rapid rate, leading to a rise in equipment capacity [Phonetic] across all segments. Third, innovative consumer products are incorporating more semiconductor enabled functionality, driving faster growth in semiconductor content per growth.On our last call, we talked about new gaming consoles as an incremental driver for semiconductor demand and WFE. A similar example is, what you see in wearables. These devices are utilizing an increasing number of sophisticated sensors, manufactured using mature technology nodes, to deliver added functionality such as body temperature measurement, heart rate monitoring and blood oxygen sensing.Wearables are integrating these sensors with advanced node semiconductors, that deliver lower power and lower latency, in addition to the computation capability required to support new AI and machine learning enabled applications. This is having a marked effect on semiconductor content in these products in today's wearables contained nearly double the amount of DRAM and four times the amount of NAND versus five years ago.Semiconductors are also capturing a greater share of the value within the electronic supply chain, and we see 2021 semiconductor revenues and electronics revenues breaking out of the historic averages over the last 15 years. And finally, the growing importance of semiconductors to global industries has led governments in the US, Europe and Asia to call for actions to mitigate supply chain risk, which will likely include increased investment in regional semiconductor manufacturing capacity.When combined, these four factors of accelerated technology adoption, growing complexity, increasing semiconductor content and real capacity investment support a compelling case for a strong multi-year WFE spending environment. One in which Lam is executing extremely well. In 2020, we gained share across both etch and deposition, including significant gains in conductor etch. We expect to deliver overall share growth again in 2021. Our positive momentum demonstrates how we are successfully positioning Lam, as the partner of choice for our customers at a time when technology complexity is increased heavily [Phonetic].3D scaling of device and packaging architectures, will be a primary focus of the industry for the remainder of this decade, and Lam approaches this challenge with unique experience. We were the leader in enabling the transition to 3D devices through our early engagement in etching. And as a result, we've built enduring leadership positions in the most critical etch and deposition applications. And as the 3D NAND roadmap is evolving to multi-stack scaling for higher layer counts, our technical contribution continues to grow.To integrate multiple stacks to build taller devices, innovative solutions are required for stress management, etch selectivity and defect control. The increase in complexity of multi-stack scaling is creating new product opportunities for Lam, and this quarter we recorded a key deposition win for a multi-stack enabling film at a leading memory customer. Through our leadership in the 3D NAND market, Lam has developed a portfolio of products and acquired the expertise in high volume manufacturing to help customers highly complex 3D scaling challenges across other device segments.In Foundry/Logic, the adoption of 3D like gate all around or nano sheet type structures introduces unique processing requirements. In the last earnings call, I highlighted the momentum of our latest conductor etch system, KIYO GX, which utilizes an innovative plasma pulsing capability to deliver superior high aspect ratio etch results for nano sheet structures. In order, we saw additional application wins with Kiyo at multiple Foundry/Logic customers. We are also seeing share gains with our new suite of selective etch products, designed for ultra high selectivity removal processes previously performed using systems. Related to the challenge to the back end of line scaling, we are taking new approaches to deposit lower k materials and deliver better interface control.New material duration schemes enabled us to win multiple 5-nanometer back end of line applications. And in the March quarter, we extended our wins to more advanced nodes as well. In addition to device scaling, we remain equally focused on our customers' objectives to improve cost and operating efficiency in their fabs. You will recall, recently announced our new Vantex dielectric etch process module on the Sense.i platform. Vantex on Sense.i delivers best-in-class Etch Technology and brings to market unique and innovative solutions to lower overall cost of ownership.The Sense.i platform architecture increases wafer output per square meter of fab space. New RF power designs consume less energy to support cost and ESG roadmaps, and advanced equipment intelligence and self-maintenance capabilities minimize required on-site human intervention. With semiconductor demand at unprecedented levels, these factors have become critical differentiators as customers look to cost effectively and sustain ramp capacity on advanced nodes. As a result, we continue to make solid progress on Sense.i adoption at leading customers. Our focus on helping customers solve productivity and manufacturing challenges is also reflected in the excellent performance of our installed base business, where we are seeing outstanding growth.CSBG revenue eclipsed $1.3 billion in the March quarter, yet another record. We are executing very well in this business. And as we sit here today, we are tracking ahead of the growth model that we shared with you at last year's Investor Day. All product lines within CSBG had record revenues in the quarter. Our upgrades business is expected to roughly double over the two-year period ending in 2021. By enhancing productivity and extending the installed base capability for multiple generations, our upgrades business plays an important part in our customers' cost reduction roadmaps. In Reliant, we see specialty technologies, continuing to grow in areas like CIS, Power and RF devices.In Spares, we successfully closed with a key customer, the single largest annual contract in the company's history, which includes commitments for critical leading edge parts. And lastly, we are seeing great progress in services. Big data and equipment intelligence are playing an increasingly critical role in the operation of advanced semiconductor fabs. This quarter, we closed a multi-region data services license contract with a major memory manufacturer to provide enhanced tool data to enable their smart manufacturing roadmap.Additionally, our services team completed the first year of a comprehensive multi-year Equipment Intelligence Services contract at another major memory producer. System performance under this contract exceeded objectives, leading to a significant return on investment for the customer.So, to conclude, we are in an environment where industry fundamentals continue to strengthen. The strategic relevance of semiconductors is reaching new heights and semiconductor capital equipment is well positioned to benefit. Amidst strong WFE spending, Lam is delivering great results and making foundational investments in new products and infrastructure to drive continued outperformance.Thanks again for joining today and now here's Doug.Douglas R. Bettinger -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting OfficerGreat. Thanks, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today, during what I know is a busy earnings season. I hope you and your family safe and healthy since we last spoke with you. Lam delivered outstanding results for the March quarter with record quarterly revenue and strong profitability metrics. For the quarter, our revenue and gross margin came in above the midpoint of our guidance in both operating income and earnings per share were above the guidance range.We've continued our excellence and execution, not only in delivering impressive financial results, but also on being our customers' most trusted partner. We delivered revenue for the March quarter of $3.85 billion at the high end of our guidance range, which was an increase of 11% from this quarter. Our solid revenue performance was mainly due to an increase in Foundry related systems as well as record performance in our customer support business group or CSBG, where we had increases in all parts of that business. Our customers' fabs are running at high utilization levels, which drives the need for consumption of spare parts and services.First, let's focus on our systems revenue where we saw continued strength in the memory segment, which represented 62% of systems revenue in the March quarter. The NAND segment was 48% of our systems revenue compared with 51% in the prior quarter, with customers investing in higher 3D device layer count and added capacity to address the overall broad demand for storage bits. The March quarter NAND systems revenue amount reached a record level again demonstrating Lam's leadership position in the NAND segment. Customers were primarily investing in equipment for 96 and 128 layer class devices.In DRAM, we had 14% of our March quarter systems revenue in this segment, compared to 17% in the prior quarter. DRAM investments consisted of both conversion and capacity additions with concentration in the 1y, 1z and 1-alpha nodes. We expect to continue to see healthy and prudent levels of investment in the overall memory segment in calendar year 2021. We had our highest quarterly revenue level in the March quarter for the Foundry segment and it came in at 31% of our systems revenue compared with 26% in the quarter.We're seeing leading-edge investments focused on 5-nanometer as well as spending related to mature technology nodes required to meet higher demand for specialty or consumer oriented integrated circuits. And finally, Logic and Other contributed the remaining 7% of systems revenue in the March quarter, up slightly from the prior quarter level at 6%.Let me now shift to the regional profile of our revenue. The China revenue -- the China region came in at 32% of our total revenues, down slightly from 35% December quarter. The majority of the China spending this quarter was from domestic Chinese customers. The Korea region was also strong for us in the March quarter representing 31% of revenues, which is up 10 points from the prior quarter. And as Tim mentioned, we achieved another record quarter of revenue for our customer support business group coming in at $1.3 billion, which is an increase of 13% from December and up over 50% versus the same quarter in 2020.The growth we've seen in each of the sub-segments of this business is a testament to the value we're providing to our customers for technology and productivity enhancements as well as the strength of this market supported by our Reliant product line. We're also supporting customers request for increasing spare parts purchases to support both higher equipment utilization and some level of inventory stocking. We expect continued strength in CSBG through the remainder of the year.Let me now shift to profitability. March gross margin was 46.3% generally in line with our expectations. And I'll remind you, as I always do gross margin fluctuates quarter-to-quarter due to overall business levels along with customer and product mix. We do continue to incur higher freight and logistics cost because of the COVID environment and we expect these costs will remain until we see anomalies of airfreight volumes.Operating expenses for the March quarter were $567 million slightly higher than the prior quarter, reflecting our commitment to manage expense levels, while we invest to grow the company. We prioritize their spending toward R&D, which represents over two-thirds of our operating expenses enabling us to build on our deposition and ex-leadership positions. Operating income exceeded $1.2 billion in the March quarter with operating margin coming in over the guidance range at 31.6%.Our non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 7.8%, which came in lower than we expected due to incremental deductions from equity compensation for annually vesting that occurred during the quarter. As we've discussed in the past, we will have fluctuations in the tax rate from quarter-to-quarter and you should continue to expect the ongoing tax rate to be in the low-teens level for the '22 calendar year. I would mention, we continue to monitor potential tax changes that could come from the new administration in the United States.Other income and expense was approximately $42 million in expense, which is lower than the prior quarter and lower than the typical run rate primarily due to marketing items like foreign exchange and interest rates. And as a reminder, beginning in the March quarter of last year, the benefits and costs of our employee deferred compensation plan are no longer mismatched in our non-GAAP results. The mismatch was $8 million for the March '21 quarter and you can see the details of this in the GAAP reconciliation table of our earnings release.We paid $187 million in dividends and allocated over $900 million toward share repurchases tracking nicely with our committed Lam capital return plans. From the buyback in the quarter went to a structured repurchase program, which was supplemented with open market repurchases. Diluted earnings per share came in at $7.49 above the guidance range. This was the result of the higher revenue and gross margin as well as the ability that I mentioned in the tax rate.Our diluted share balance was down from the December quarter level coming in at 145 million shares as we expect. The share count includes the dilutive impact of approximately 500,000 shares from the 2041 convertible notes. An additional mention is that late in the March quarter we issued a redemption notice for the 2041 convertible notes. As of March quarter end, we had approximately $17 million remaining on these notes. This redemption would require the last of the convertible notes in our capital.Let me shift to balance sheet. Cash and short-term investments, including restricted cash decreased slightly to $6 billion from $6.3 billion in the prior. The decrease was attributed to the capital return activity, offset by the strong performance we had in the March quarter, cash flows from operations, which came in at a record level of $0.2 billion.Days sales outstanding decreased to 66 days in the March quarter from 76 that we saw in December. This improvement was driven by strong cash generation with the higher level of business. And as I alluded to last quarter, the timing collections across the December and March quarters. Inventory turns were flat with the prior quarter, coming in at 3.2 times. Given the overall demand strength we're seeing, as well as our focus to mitigate potential supply chain disruptions. Inventory turns will likely remain at these current levels for the foreseeable future.Non-cash expenses included approximately $56 million for equity compensation, $61 million for depreciation and $18 million for amortization. Capital expenditures for the March quarter were down slightly versus the December level coming in at $90 million. As I noted in our last earnings call, we're investing to support the expanding operations at our new Malaysia factory, our manufacturing facility in Ohio, that's focused on critical spare parts and the upcoming Korea Technology Center. We expect to see somewhat higher levels of capital expenditures in 2021, as we support these critical growth initiatives.The head count level ending the March quarter was approximately 13,100 regular full-time employees. Resources have been added in our factories to meet the increased output levels in this robust business environment. Within this, we opportunistically bought out our Asian joint venture manufacturing facility, that is focused on our Reliant product line. This added capital growth and headcount that we saw in the quarter. Additionally, we've added field service and R&D personnel with a focus on delivering best-in-class technology services and solutions to our customers.Now looking ahead, I'd like to provide you our non-GAAP guidance for the June 2021 quarter. We're expecting revenue of $4 billion plus or minus $250 million. Gross margin of 46.5% plus or minus 1%. Operating margins of 32% plus or minus 1 percentage point. And finally, earnings per share of $7.50 plus or minus $0.50 based on a share of approximately 144 million shares.So in summary, I'm quite pleased with our operational execution, which is reflected in the strong financial performance of the company. We now see greater strength in WFE as we go through calendar 2021, with the second half looking stronger than the first half. We are guiding to continuing record financial performance for the company, and we are well on the path to achievement of our growth objectives that we spoke to you about at our Investor Day in March of last year. I personally never been so excited for the things that semiconductor industry is enabling. And I'm proud of the results, Lam has continued to deliver enabling this industry.That concludes my prepared remarks. Operator, please open up the call for questions.