  OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Southwest Airlines first quarter 2022 conference call. My name is Chad, and I will be moderating today's call. This call is being recorded, and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the investor relations section. [Operator instructions] At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Ryan Martinez, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir.Ryan Martinez -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Chad, and thank you all for joining us today. In just a moment, we will share our prepared remarks and then open it up for Q&A. Joining me on the call today, we have our CEO Bob Jordan, Executive Vice President and CFO Tammy Romo, Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer Andrew Watterson, and President and Chief Operating Officer Michael Van de Ven. A quick reminder that we will make forward-looking statements today, which are based on our current expectations of future performance, and our actual results could differ substantially from these expectations. Also, we had a few special items in our first quarter results, which we excluded from our trends for non-GAAP purposes, and we will reference these non-GAAP results in our remarks. Please see our press release from this morning and our IR website for more information, our cautionary statements and our non-GAAP reconciliation for more detail. With that, Bob, I'll turn it over to you.Bob Jordan -- Chief Executive Officer All right. Well, thank you, Ryan. Hello, everybody. Thank you for joining us today. Well, the first quarter was a tale of two really different environments. As expected, we incurred losses in January and February due to the negative impacts of the Omicron variant. We anticipated travel demand would rebound in March, and we were pleasantly surprised at how quickly it bounced back and the extent to which demand and bookings surged. While we reported a Q1 loss, we were solidly profitable in March, actually not too far off of March 2019's profit. And while modest, I'm very pleased that first quarter unit revenues increased as compared to 2019. That was the first quarterly increase since the onset of the pandemic. So -- but for the Omicron impact, we estimate that we would have been profitable for the first quarter. In the first quarter, total operating revenues were 91% restored to 2019 levels despite Q1 managed business revenues being only 45% restored. Looking forward, we are very encouraged with the bookings and revenue trends we are experiencing for Q2, which indicate operating revenues will be fully restored to quarterly record levels on stronger leisure and business demand. Our revenue initiatives continue to roll out, and Andrew will cover our new fare product in more detail, and we look forward to launching that this quarter and getting another one of our revenue initiatives in place and producing value. We will have another meaningful fuel hedge gain in Q2, and we remain well protected with our fuel hedge portfolio in the second half of this year. Despite higher-than-normal unit cost inflation and productivity drags from underutilizing our assets, we expect to be solidly profitable for Q2 through Q4 and for the full year 2022. We are currently forecasting a healthy profit for Q2 with solid operating margins. Now of course, this is based on our current outlook and barring any unforeseen material events such as another wave that would impact or temporarily slow our progress, but we see no signs of that at this point. It just goes to show the power of our business model and how well our people are managing through a very difficult environment. Our March results and our current outlook for Q2 represent tremendous progress in our recovery. Even if we aren't fully expected to be optimized with our network fully restored until the end of next year, I'm just really, really proud of our people for their progress today. We've come a long way. I'm just very thankful for their constant resilience. Now key to our recovery is our continued hiring progress, and we now plan to hire and add over 10,000 new employees to the Southwest family this year, and that's net of expected attrition. By the end of this month, we will have welcomed roughly 6,500 new employees in 2022, and that's 5,000 net of attrition. And I'm just really pleased with our hiring progress. We continue to work through lower available staffing and training constraints to keep pace with rebounding travel demand, and we recently reduced our summer flight schedules to match our capacity guidance as we prioritize our operational reliability. I believe we have already accounted for the impact of staffing constraints in our full year 2022 guidance on capacity of down 4% versus 2019. But of course, we need to trim more capacity we certainly can, but I'm cautiously optimistic that we can get to a good balance of headcount to operate our planned flight schedules for the remainder of the year while setting ourselves up for resuming more material growth in 2023. You've heard me mention these things before, but we remain focused on a few key priorities for this year: first, getting properly staffed and focusing on our people; second, making progress toward our historic operational reliability and efficiency; third, providing our legendary hospitality; and fourth, returning to consistent profitability. It will take all 59,000 employees working together to execute on these focus areas and deliver a low-cost, high-quality product with low fares and great customer service. That's what our people are good at, and they've been good at that for 50 years, and they just do an incredible job. It's a tough environment, and they've been through a lot. I'm so grateful for them and what they do each and every day. Together, we're making tremendous progress to put this pandemic behind us. And while coming out of the pandemic has proven to be messy. As it was coming into the pandemic, I can assure you that we are very hard at work here at Southwest Airlines to make this company even stronger, and I remain very optimistic about our future. And with that, I will turn it over to Tammy.Tammy Romo -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Bob, and hello, everyone. First, I'd also like to thank our employees for their resilience in yet another challenging quarter impacted by the pandemic and weather disruptions. The rapid rise of the Omicron variant significantly impacted our business in January and February, resulting in a first quarter net loss of $191 million, excluding special items. March, however, was a much different story as we experienced a rebound in demand and surge in bookings during the month, driving March operating revenues higher in March 2019. This was our first monthly revenue increase relative to respective 2019 levels since the pandemic began. Last month, cash sales also represented a monthly record as bookings surged for spring and summer travel. And we posted healthy double-digit margins for the month of March despite the significant rise in market jet fuel prices. Needless to say, I am excited about the strong revenue trends in second quarter, as Andrew will cover in more detail in a minute. Taking a look at nonfuel cost, we are tracking in line with our 2022 cost plan with first quarter CASM-X coming in at the favorable end of our previous guidance range at up 17.9% compared with first quarter 2019. Thankfully, favorable airport settlements, better operational performance in March and lower-than-expected incentive pay created some end period cost relief in first quarter relative to our guidance. As we look ahead, we continue to experience unit cost pressure from operating at suboptimal productivity levels, as well as higher inflationary cost pressures, primarily in salaries, wages and benefits. We are leaving our full year CASM-X guidance unchanged at up 12% to 16% versus 2019 as we are still not able to fully utilize our assets or achieve optimal productivity levels due primarily to staffing challenges. That said, we do expect second half 2022 CASM-X growth rate relative to 2019 to ease sequentially from first half 2022. For our second quarter, we currently estimate CASM-X to increase in the range of 14% to 18% when compared with 2019 levels. Roughly half of that increase is a result of continued inflationary pressures in both labor and airport rates, which now includes labor rate increases across all work groups as best as we can estimate at this point given the current labor market and our current outlook for profitability this year. We estimate the incremental labor accruals to be roughly one point to CASM-X. The remaining half of the CASM-X increase is attributable to headwinds from operating at suboptimal capacity and productivity levels. Our outlook for second quarter capacity remains down approximately 7% from 2019 levels. And while our moderated capacity plans are designed to provide operational relief given our current available staffing challenges, it continues to create unit cost headwinds, particularly with a shorter stage length as we add back higher-frequency business routes, which Andrew will speak to shortly. Turning to fuel. Market prices have been on a rise and highly volatile given the current geopolitical climate. Our fuel hedge is providing excellent protection against rising energy prices and significantly offsets the market price increase in jet fuel in first quarter 2022. We are at 63% hedged for second quarter and estimate our second quarter fuel price to be in the $3.05 to $3.15 per gallon range, which is roughly $0.80 higher than our first quarter fuel price. That includes an estimated $0.61 of hedging gain, which represents cost savings of more than $290 million in second quarter alone. Of course, this is a snapshot of our fuel guidance at a point in time and market oil prices and heating cracks have been moving pretty materially on a daily basis. By the way, the current energy environment is exactly why we hedge fuel. Even though the hedging gains in the second quarter won't fully offset the rise in market fuel costs, our hedging portfolio is providing meaningful cost mitigation. The fair market value of our fuel hedge in 2022 is estimated at roughly $1 billion. Turning to our fleet. We recently adjusted our order book with Boeing to replace the majority of our -7 MAX firm orders with -8 MAX firm orders in the short term, along with other adjustments, which we outlined in our earnings release this morning. I won't reiterate all the details, but will note a few key highlights. Our current order book now reflects 21 -7 firm orders, 81 -8 firm orders and 12 remaining MAX options in 2022. If you recall from our previous order book as of the end of last year, we had no -8 firm orders in 2022. While we are eager to bring the -7 aircraft into our fleet and remain confident in the aircraft, we simply wanted to go ahead and rebound our 2022 order book to provide more near-term certainty given the ongoing certification process for the -7. We are grateful for the flexibility we have in our order book to shift between -7 and -8 and our plans this year to take 114 aircraft delivery and retire 28 -700 remain unchanged. While our capex guidance assumes we will exercise the remaining 12 options this year, we maintain flexibility to evaluate that intention as decision points arise each month. And given that the certification for the -7 has been going on for some time, we contemplated the possibility of taking some -8s this year into our 2022 capex estimate. Therefore, our capex guidance of approximately $5 billion remains unchanged. As I have mentioned before, we don't expect to incur a CASM-X penalty from holding on to extra aircraft versus accelerating -700 retirement while our capacity remains temporarily moderated. So from an economic standpoint, we may not decide to accelerate further aircraft retirements this year despite having more aircraft in our fleet than needed for current 2022 capacity plans. We are also mindful of aircraft and growth needs for 2023 as we plan to continue restoring the network. On our balance sheet, we ended the quarter with cash and short-term investments of $15.7 billion. Our leverage is at a very manageable 56%, and we continue to pay down and retire debt as opportunities arise as we have done with a portion of our convertible debt. We continue to be the only U.S. airline with an investment-grade rating by all three rating agencies, which remains one of our key competitive advantages. In closing, our second quarter financial trends are strong. Barring any unforeseen events or trend changes, we expect solid second quarter profit and operating margins. Our financial position and ample liquidity allows us to continue investing for the future so that we are ready to resume growth as soon as we are first able to restore our network and get staffing to desired levels. And we intend to grow. We are a growth airline. We have great momentum, and we are excited about the ample opportunities in front of us. With that, I will turn it over to Andrew.Andrew Watterson -- Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer Thank you, Tammy. I will provide some additional color on our revenue trends and outlook and point you to our earnings release for more detail. Looking first at Q1, January and February passenger revenues incurred two main negative impacts. First, $380 million due to softness in bookings and elevated passenger cancellations attributable to the Omicron variant. And second, an additional $50 million in January due to flight cancellations related to available staffing challenges, which were made worse by winter weather. However, we experienced a very different dynamic in March as we saw a surge in leisure travel and bookings along with a significant pickup in close-in demand. The improvement in March exceeded our original expectations for both leisure and business demand. March managed business revenues were down 36% versus March 2019 compared to our latest guidance of down 40% and put us back on a nice improvement trajectory from pre-Omicron performance in December of 2021. In fact, managed business revenues improved 34 points from January's down 70% to March's down 36%. We experienced higher managed business passengers. And most notably, March marked the first month since the pandemic began where managed business fares surpassed 2019 levels. Our revenue initiatives performed well during Q1 despite the Omicron impact. We saw benefits from our GDS initiative given the significant bounce-back of business demand in March. We also had a strong performance from our loyalty program with other revenue up 43% versus Q1 2019, which was assisted by incremental revenue from our new co-brand credit card agreement with Chase. A nice attribute from our new co-brand credit card agreement is that the revenue stream is rather insulated or diversified from the passenger revenue impact from COVID wave as long as consumers' spending remains healthy. And Q1 retail sales spend per cardholder and overall portfolio size continue to grow versus 2019. Now our new market performance was impacted by the Omicron variant to a greater degree than the rest of our network. While Hawaii growth markets underperformed expectations slightly in March, largely driven by the COVID protocols that have since been lifted, we are encouraged by the strong demand we saw in March and heading into the summer months for Hawaii. We continue to adjust our Hawaii offering to best suit our customers' needs and allocate more of our capacity to business markets, and this can be seen in the changes beginning in June. In non-Hawaii new markets, we saw a modest outperformance versus expectations due to the sharp uptick in travel demand in March, which follow the general trend of the rest of the network of broad-based improvement across all geographies. All told, for Q1, we came in at the midpoint of our operating revenue guidance at down 9%. While the Omicron impact was higher than anticipated in January and February, the improvement in March outperformed our expectations, and we're very pleased with the recent revenue trends. Looking at Q2, the positive momentum continues, and we're expecting the operating revenues to turn positive versus Q2 2019, estimated to be up 8% to 12% despite capacity below 2019 levels and managed business revenues yet to fully recover. As we were already operating at pre-pandemic load factors in the low to mid-80% range, our revenue improvement outlook is primarily due to higher passenger yields, both leisure and business. We expect another solid contribution from our revenue initiatives, in particular, with GDS as managed business revenues are expected to improve sequentially. April managed business revenues are expected to be down 30% versus April 2019, and we expect to see sequential improvement in May and June. We also expect our new fare product to roll out this quarter, which we call Wanna Get Away Plus. Having four fare columns displayed in our website is a natural evolution that is geared toward offering customers the attributes they want to choose while not taking anything away. The general attributes of Wanna Get Away Plus are: the introduction of transferable flight credits; more flexibility with same-day confirmed change in standby benefits; and a higher earned multiple for Rapid Rewards points. At the same time, our Anytime fares will gain the express flyby security lane and priority check-in perks where available, as well as early bird check-in benefits. We believe this will better represent the product offerings that our customers want and/or when to pay for, and it has the added benefit of generating incremental revenue for the company. Given the timing of the rollout, we aren't expecting a material benefit in Q2, but we are expecting a solid revenue contribution in the second half of 2022. Lastly, on our revenue initiatives, our revenue management system continues its progressive rollout. Before I wrap up, I want to share some color on our capacity and published flight schedules. We continue to expect our Q2 capacity to decline 7% versus Q2 2019. While this is a two-point sequential increase in Q1, we expect a five-point sequential decrease in stage length from Q1 as we establish trips in shorter-haul markets aimed at business travel and in an effort to provide more recoverability to the operation with more frequencies. We have now adjusted our published flight schedules through Labor Day to match flight activity to our 2022 capacity guidance. In terms of network restoration, we will be roughly 80% restored by June based on trips. And based on our full year capacity guidance of down 4% versus 2019, we expect to be roughly 85% restored by December. As we have discussed, it will take us some time to rebuild the network that we want given current staffing constraints. We will continue to expect to restore the vast majority of our network by the end of 2023. And with that, I will turn it over to Mike.Mike Van de Ven -- Chief Operating Officer Well, thank you, Andrew, and hello, everyone. On our last earnings call, I walked through the availability of staffing and our challenges that we face due to the Omicron variant and the roughly 5,000 employees that became sick in the first three weeks of January. As a result of that, we reinstated an incentive pay program that ran from January 9 through February 8. The incentive pay program work is designed. Our employees responded very well. They picked up extra shifts that helped us cover the flight schedule and those employees out sick. While the program cost us $127 million, it afforded us an opportunity to more quickly stabilize the operation. In the first seven days of January, our on-time performance was 41.2%. From January 8 through mid-February, that on-time performance jumped to 85.1%. That put us No. 2 for on-time performance in the industry, and that was a monumental feat after the start to the year that we had. What I think is most impressive about our people is that they not only stepped up to cover the extra shifts during what can only be described as an Omicron crisis, but they put Southwest Airlines in the top spot for customer satisfaction in January for the DOT's Air Travel Consumer Report, and we remained in the top spot among marketing shares in February as well. Our people have been through a lot these last few years, and just to accomplish that in the first two months of this year is just superb. And my sincere thanks to everyone out there on the front line that's working hard for Southwest and/or taking great care of our customers. I am very pleased that our employees and our customers can now make a decision for themselves as to whether or not they want to wear a mask on board our aircraft. I know that enforcing mass compliance has been a tough endeavor for our employees for a long time now, and they deserve a break. The science supports the mask mandate expiring. So great news on that front. Relative to early January, our operational performance in February and March improved. Our February flight levels stayed relatively low at 3,300 flights per day, and then they increased to roughly 3,400 flights a day in March. And as Andrew mentioned, travel demand in March surged with load factors in the mid-80s. We anticipated a ramp-up in demand, but we did run into a few challenges during March related to weather and ATC delay programs. In mid-March, we had Winter Storm Quinlan. That impacted many of our Mid-Atlantic and Northeast airports. And then we also had a line of severe thunderstorms that stretched from the Gulf of Mexico and across Florida, and that resulted in air traffic management programs, operational adjustments and then resulting flight cancellations. In early April, we experienced a technology outage that caused similar issues, and it took a couple of days to work through that event. We've had a tough time during irregular operations given our center network and some of the unanticipated air traffic control slowdowns. The good news is that we've made some adjustments to our network starting this month that we believe will help and I'll speak to them more shortly. On the staffing front, we continue to aggressively hire. And as Bob mentioned, we're now targeting over 10,000 new employees this year, net of attrition. The majority of this hiring is in the operations group, and it's imperative that we are properly staffed. The goal with the majority of these hires is to cover our published flight schedules and our capacity plans this year. But also, we intend to build some buffer so that we're ready to resume growth in the near future and get ahead of our spring and summer 2023 staffing needs. We are making great progress with hiring, but we have thousands of employees that are in training, and they're still gaining proficiency. So it just takes time before we'll going to have a full complement of frontline employees that are on the job versus either being a new hire and still in the training pipeline. So we've made trade-offs with lower capacity in order to support operational reliability. And the combination of this and the continued hiring should help us as we move into the summer. On behavior trends and hours worked per employee, we continue to lag prepandemic metrics. We're still experiencing higher sick time, more employees on inactive status and overall staffing availability challenges. We've also had some constraints on training throughput, but we believe we have a path to get the sufficient headcount in our key operational groups this year. It remains a work in progress, and it's one of our top priorities. Until then, our capacity will remain muted versus the aircraft that we would like to return to service to accelerate the network restoration. And lastly, Andrew mentioned that we expect our average stage length to decrease by about five points from the first quarter to the second quarter, and that should help us with our operational recoverability in Q2. We're adding short-haul flights in the business-oriented markets. That provides us more options when we have weather or ATC delays. We won't snap back to a historical network composition overnight, but I believe that our operational performance will continue to improve as we restore the network through the end of next year. That should provide the foundation to recapture better operating leverage, and we're also working on other initiatives to improve overall efficiency and return to our historic levels of productivity. And so with that, Ryan, I'll turn it back over to you.Ryan Martinez -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Mike. I believe we have analysts queued up for questions. [Operator instructions] So Chad, please go ahead and begin our analyst Q&A. 