
OperatorWelcome to the First Quarter 2021 Phillips 66 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Hilary and I will be your operator for today's call. [Operator Instructions]I will now turn the call over to Jeff Dietert, Vice President, Investor Relations. Jeff, you may begin.Jeff Dietert -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Good morning and welcome to Phillips 66 first quarter earnings conference call. Participants on today's call will include Greg Garland, Chairman and CEO; Mark Lashier, President and COO; Kevin Mitchell, EVP and CFO; Bob Herman, EVP, Refining; Brian Mandell, EVP, Marketing and Commercial; and Tim Roberts, EVP, Midstream. Today's presentation material can be found on the Investor Relations section of the Phillips 66 website along with supplemental financial and operating information.Slide 2 contains our Safe Harbor statement. We will be making forward-looking statements during today's presentation and our Q&A session. Actual results may differ materially from today's comments. Factors that could cause actual results to differ are included here as well as in our SEC filings.With that, I'll turn over the call to Greg.Greg C. Garland -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



Thanks, Jeff and good morning, everyone and thanks for joining us today. First, I'd like to welcome Mark Lashier, our new President and Chief Operating Officer. I think many of you know Mark from his previous role as President and CEO of CPChem. Mark, it's great to have you here with us at Phillips 66.In the first quarter, we had an adjusted loss of $509 million or $1.16 per share. Our results reflect the impact of the severe winter storms in the US Gulf Coast and Central regions or experience reduced volumes, increased utility cost and maintenance and repair costs, but safely resumed operations across our businesses following and storm-related downtime. We're proud of our employees and their commitment to operating excellence, particularly during these challenging times. Gasoline, diesel demand continues to recover and product inventories have normalized supporting higher refining margins and utilization rates. We expect continued recovery as we wrap up spring turnarounds and head into the summer driving season.Also Chemicals facilities are back to normal operations with continued strong demand and margins. We remain optimistic about the impact COVID-19 vaccines and monetary stimulus will have on economic recovery in the back half of the year. Leading indicators suggest economic growth is accelerating which supports demand for our products. In the first quarter we returned $394 million to shareholders in dividends. We remain committed to a secure competitive and growing dividend. In February, we repaid $500 million of maturing debt. We will continue with a disciplined approach to capital allocation including debt repayment as cash generation improves.We'll maintain a conservative balance sheet and a strong investment-grade credit rating. The South Texas Gateway Terminal commissioned additional storage bringing the total capacity to 8.6 million barrels. This completes the final construction phase for this project. In addition, terminal has up to 800,000 barrels per day of export capacity. Phillips 66 Partners owns a 25% interest in the terminal. Phillips 66 Partners continued construction of the C2G Pipeline connecting its Clemens storage Caverns to petrochemical facilities in the Corpus Christi area. The project is backed by long-term commitments and is expected to be completed in mid-2021.

 



At the Sweeny Hub, we plan to resume construction of Frac 4 in the second half of 2021 which will add 150,000 barrels per day. Upon completion, the Sweeny Hub will have 550,000 barrels per day of fractionation capacity supported by long-term customer commitments. In Chemicals, CPChem is advancing optimization and debottlenecking opportunities. This includes approved projects at its Cedar Bayou facility that will increase production of ethylene and polyethylene. In addition, CPChem is developing an expansion of its normal alpha olefins capacity.We are advancing our Rodeo renewed project at San Francisco Refinery. Earlier this month, we began renewable diesel production from a hydrotreater conversion, which will ramp up to 8,000 barrels per day in the third quarter. Subject to permitting and approvals, full conversion of facility is expected in early 2024. Upon completion, the facility will have over 50,000 barrels per day of renewable fuel production capacity. This capital efficient investment is expected to deliver strong returns and reduce the facilities' greenhouse gas emissions by 50%. This project will help California meet its lower-carbon objectives.We're increasing our focus on lower-carbon initiatives across the Company. This includes the creation of an Emerging Energy Group earlier this year and ongoing research and development by our Energy Research and Innovation organization. We've invested in Shell Rock Soy Processing, a joint venture that plans to construct a new soybean facility in Iowa. We expect the project to be completed in late 2022 and we will purchase 100% of the soybean oil production. We signed an MOU with Southwest Airlines to commercialize sustainable aviation fuel.We launched a technical collaboration with Faradion, a leader in sodium-ion battery technology to develop lower-cost, higher-performing anode materials for sodium-ion batteries. These activities further add commitment to addressing the global climate challenge while delivering attractive shareholder returns. Finally, would like to comment on our Company's operating excellence. We are honored that our refining midstream and chemicals businesses were recently recognized for 2020 safety performance. Six of our refineries were recognized by AFPM including Lake Charles, Ponca City and Santa Maria refineries which received distinguished Safety Awards.This is the highest annual safety award in our industry and the fifth year in a row that our refineries have received this honor. Our midstream businesses was awarded KPI distinguished Pipeline Safety Award for large operators. This is the highest recognition by APIs in the midstream industry. In addition, we were recognized by the Gas Processors Association for our outstanding safety performance in midstream.In Chemicals, AFPM selected CPChem's Conroe, Orange and Port Arthur facilities as recipients of the Elite Silver Safety Award. So, congratulations, all these facilities, well done, we're really proud of you.So with that I'm going turn the call over to Kevin to review the financial results.Kevin J. Mitchell -- Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Greg. Hello, everyone. Starting with an overview on slide 4, we summarize our first quarter results. We reported a loss of $654 million. Special items this quarter included an impairment resulting from Phillips 66 Partners' decision to exit the Liberty Pipeline project as well as winter storm-related maintenance and repair costs. Excluding these special items, we had an adjusted loss of $509 million or $1.16 per share. We generated operating cash flow of $271 million including distributions from equity affiliates of $502 million. Capital spending for the quarter was $331 million including $174 million for growth projects. We paid $394 million in dividends.Moving to slide 5. This slide shows the change in adjusted results from the fourth quarter to the first quarter, a decrease of $2 million. Improved results in refining as marketing and specialties were offset by lower pre-tax income in the other segments. Our adjusted effective income tax rate was 16%. The rate is influenced by the proportional mix of pre-tax income from domestic, foreign and MLP sources. Slide 6 shows our midstream results. First quarter adjusted pre-tax income was $276 million, a decrease of $47 million from the previous quarter. Transportation contributed adjusted pre-tax income of $206 million, up $10 million from the previous quarter. The increase was due to lower operating costs and higher equity earnings, partially offset by lower volumes.NGL and Other adjusted pre-tax income was $36 million, the $50 million decrease from the prior quarter was mainly due to higher operating costs associated with the winter storms. The Sweeny fractionation complex averaged 330,000 barrels per day. And the Freeport LPG Export facility loaded a record 41 cargoes in the first quarter. DCP Midstream adjusted pre-tax income of $34 million was down $7 million from the previous quarter, mainly due to the winter storms.Turning to Chemicals on slide 7. First quarter adjusted pre-tax income was $184 million, down $19 million from the fourth quarter. Olefins and polyolefins adjusted pre-tax income was $174 million. The $42 million decrease from the previous quarter was primarily due to winter storm impacts, which resulted in lower production and higher utility costs. This was partially offset by higher margins, primarily due to tight supplies, low inventory levels and continued strong demand. Global O&P utilization was 79% for the quarter. All impacted CPChem facilities safely restarted operations by early April.Adjusted pre-tax income for SA&S increased $14 million primarily due to improved margins. During the first quarter, we received $205 million in cash distributions from CPChem. Turning to refining on slide 8. Refining first quarter adjusted pre-tax loss with $1 billion, an improvement of $68 million from the fourth quarter. First quarter results reflect the impact of the winter storms. The improvement was driven by higher realized margins largely offset by increased turnaround costs as well as higher utilities resulting from the winter storms. The increase in realized margins reflect improved crack spreads and the sale of excess electricity to help meet demand in the Texas market, partially offset by lower product differentials and higher rent costs.Pre-tax turnaround costs were $192 million, up from $76 million in the prior quarter. We completed the majority of our spring turnaround activity this month. Crude utilization was 74% compared with 69% last quarter. The first quarter clean product yield was 82%. Slide 9 covers market capture. The 3:2:1 market crack for the first quarter was $14.23 per barrel compared to $7.84 per barrel in the fourth quarter. Realized margin was $4.36 per barrel and resulted in an overall market capture of 33%. Market capture in the previous quarter was 28%.Market capture is impacted by the configuration of our refineries. We make less gasoline and more distillate than premise in the 3:2:1 market crack. During the quarter, the gasoline crack improved $6.38 per barrel, while the distillate crack increased $3.41 per barrel. In addition, we had a lower clean product yield this quarter as a result of turnaround activity and unplanned downtime, which also contributed to the configuration impact. Losses from secondary products of $1.29 per barrel were $0.09 higher than the previous quarter.Feedstock costs improved $0.37 per barrel compared with the prior quarter. The other category reduced realized margins by $4.78 per barrel. This category includes RINs, freight costs, clean product realizations and inventory impacts. It also reflects revenues from the sale of excess electricity into the grid.Moving to marketing and specialties on slide 10. Adjusted first quarter pre-tax income was $290 million compared with $221 million in the prior quarter. Marketing and other increased $30 million due to higher domestic margins, partially offset by lower international margins. Specialties improved $39 million largely due to improved base oil and finished lubricant margins. Refined product exports in the first quarter was 204,000 barrels per day.On slide 11, the corporate and other segment had adjusted pre-tax costs of $251 million, an increase of $16 million from the prior quarter. This was primarily due to the timing of charitable contributions and environmental expenses, as well as lower capitalized interest. Slide 12 shows the change in cash for the quarter. We started the year with a $2.5 billion cash balance. Cash from operations was $271 million. This included a working capital benefit of $98 million. In February, we repaid $500 million of floating rate senior notes upon maturity.Capital spending was $331 million and we paid $394 million in dividends. The other category includes a $155 million loan to our WIP joint venture. Our ending cash balance was $1.4 billion. At March 31, we had $6.7 billion of committed liquidity, reflecting $1.4 billion of consolidated cash was available capacity on our credit facilities, $5 billion at Phillips 66, and $299 million at Phillips 66 Partners.This concludes my review of the financial and operating results. Next, I'll cover a few outlook items. In Chemicals, we expect the second quarter, global O&P utilization rate to be in the mid-90s. In refining, crude utilization will be adjusted according to market conditions. In April, utilization has been in the mid-80% range. We expect the second quarter pre-tax turnaround expenses to be between $110 million and $140 million. We anticipate second quarter, corporate and other costs to come in between $240 million and $250 million pre-tax.Now, we will open the line for questions.