  OperatorGood morning. My name is Regina, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo first-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note that today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to John Campbell, director of investor relations. Sir, you may begin the conference.John Campbell -- Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Regina. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today where our CEO, Charlie Scharf; and our CFO, Mike Santomassimo, will discuss first-quarter results and answer your questions. This call is being recorded. Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our first-quarter earnings materials, including the release, financial supplement, and presentation deck, are available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings materials. Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings and the earnings materials available on our website.I will now turn the call over to Charlie. Charlie Scharf -- Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. I'll make some brief comments about our first-quarter results, the operating environment, and update you on a few important topics. I'll then turn the call over to Mike to review the first-quarter results in more detail. We earned $4.7 billion or $1.05 per common share in the first quarter. As you can see, these results included a $1.6 billion decrease in the allowance for credit losses. Higher net interest income more than offset a decline in net interest income, and expenses are just beginning to reflect progress on our efficiency work. The impact of this work should increase in the latter half of the year. Credit quality continued to outperform our expectations with charge-offs at historical lows, but low interest rates and tepid loan demand remained headwinds for us during the quarter. And we continue to manage within the constraints of our asset cap, which require us to anticipate the inflows from government stimulus, effects of QE, and additional fiscal actions which could impact our balance sheet. Overall economic trends improved during the quarter, and while there are risks, the likelihood of improvement continues to increase, and you certainly see this in the markets. Equity markets are rising. Spreads have tightened, and liquidity is strong. Additional fiscal stimulus, continued monetary support, and the acceleration of vaccine availability provide a path to a more complete reopening and further economic expansion. U.S. GDP growth is on track to surpass its pre-pandemic peak by the end of the summer and is expected to increase in 2021 by more than any year since 1984. Overall, the consumer is strong, though there are inconsistencies, which I will address later.

 



 Consumer net worth was up 10% in 2020, hitting a new all-time high of $130 trillion. Personal savings is approximately $1.3 trillion greater today than it was a year ago. It's expected that more than $1 trillion will be spent over the next five months. And this does not include the impact of President Biden's proposed initiatives, Wells Fargo customers, excuse me, specifically. As of last week, over $46 billion has flowed into our customers' deposit accounts related to round 2 and round 3 of federal stimulus payments, and we estimate that half has been spent and half remains in their accounts. For our customers who received federal stimulus payments, their median deposit balance was up 80% from a year ago. And for all of our customers, including customers who did not receive stimulus payments, median balances were up 62% from a year ago. Weekly debit card spend was up every week compared to a year ago during the first quarter. The year-over-year increase accelerated in March -- in mid-March due to the impact of last year's COVID-related restrictions and the impact of stimulus payments and was up approximately 70% during this week last year of the quarter compared to a year ago but was up 35% compared to the same week in 2019. We are seeing increased consumer spending activity in both travel and restaurants, two categories that have been particularly suppressed since the onset of COVID-19. Specifically for travel, for the week ended April 2nd, debit card spend was up 422% compared to 2020 but was still down 4% compared to 2019. Consumer credit card weekly spend continues to strengthen over the course of the first quarter as well and ended up – and ended the quarter up approximately 70% during the last week of the quarter compared to a year ago but, importantly, up 8% compared to the same week in 2019. Businesses remain strong as well. Most clients still have strong cash positions, and line utilization remain low. Demand for consumer products is high, and dealer inventory levels are meaningfully lower versus historical levels. After declining during the second half of the year, commercial loan balances seem to have stabilized. And if the economy continues to pick up, we would expect to see increased loan demand from our commercial customers in the second half of the year. With vaccine distribution accelerating, I'm hopeful that we will be shifting to a more normal way of life soon, but there's still many that will continue to need help as not all have benefited equally during the recovery. Throughout the pandemic, our focus has been providing support for our customers and the communities we serve, and we continued those efforts during the first quarter. Since the pandemic began, we've helped 3.7 million consumer and small business customers by deferring payments and waiving fees. In addition to our $10.5 billion of PPP funding in 2020, in the first quarter, we funded approximately 70,000 loans totaling $2.8 billion under the latest round of the Paycheck Protection Program. This year, we focused even more on small and diverse businesses, and our average loan size was $40,000, down from $54,000 last year. We had the lowest average loan size among our large-bank peers. 96% have been for businesses with fewer than 20 employees. 43% have gone to businesses in either low- to moderate-income areas, where majority -- minority census tracts totaling more than $6 billion between this year and last year. We committed last year to donate approximately $420 million of our fees from the PPP program and established our Open for Business Fund. We're in the process of distributing these funds to a combination of CDFIs and not-for-profits that serve diverse small businesses. To date, we have distributed over $125 million and are working to accelerate distribution of the remaining funds. We estimate that these actions have protected more than 66,000 jobs and hope to make an even more substantial impact with the funds remaining. As we announced yesterday, we have invested in 11 Black minority-owned deposit institutions as part of our $50 million commitment to support MDIs. We expect to complete our investments in another two by the end of the second quarter. And as I mentioned before, we processed over $46 billion of customer deposits related to the federal stimulus payments through last week and of cash stimulus payments for noncustomers without charging fees. While we're proud of these actions, we know there is still more to do. Lower-income families and individuals, as well as minority-owned small businesses, will continue to need support, and we will continue to look for ways to help. Climate change is one of the most urgent environmental and social issues of our time. And last month, Wells Fargo announced a major step in our efforts to support the transition to a low-carbon economy by setting a goal of net-zero greenhouse gas emissions, including financed emissions, by 2050. We committed to publish data on our financed emissions and set interim goals as we work closely with our clients in this transition. We also released our first task force for climate-related disclosure – or I'm sorry, Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures report in the first quarter, which provides an update on our progress managing climate-related risks and opportunities. Let me turn to make some comments about our strategic priorities. Last quarter, in my shareholder letter, I discussed the -- in the shareholder letter, I discussed the actions we're taking to improve our performance, and we're making good progress. We continue to prioritize the work necessary to build the appropriate risk and control infrastructure, and it remains our top priority. As a reminder, this is a multi-year journey. Progress may not be a straight line, and while we still have significant work to do, we are diligently doing what's necessary, issue by issue. It's hard to share specifics given the nature of the work, but I believe we're making progress, and we're confident in our ability to complete the work. In terms of business exits, I highlighted on the call last quarter that we were focusing our efforts on our core scaled businesses. And after rigorous reviews, we were in the process of exploring options for businesses that were not consistent with our strategic priorities. Mike will cover the financial details. But in the first quarter, we announced agreements to sell Wells Fargo Asset Management and the Corporate Trust Services businesses, and both are expected to close in the second half of this year. In addition, we completed a portion of the sale of the student loan portfolio, and we completed the sale of the majority of the remaining portfolio recently. We're pleased that we have found buyers who, we believe, have a similar approach to service and are focused on providing clients with innovative products and solutions. These announcements are an important step to simplifying our business and allowing us to focus on our core strategic priorities. Our work to simplify how we operate and create a more efficient organization continues. We made progress on our brand staffing and network optimization plans as we calibrate for changing customer behaviors and more traffic migrates to digital channels. We continue to execute on our commercial banking transformation as we optimize our coverage and operations model, consolidate lending platforms, and automate and standardize many manual processes such as onboarding, a customer pain point which has been key for us. And across the entire enterprise, we continue our ongoing efforts to reduce management layers to speed decision-making and reduce unnecessary bureaucracy. We are also focused on moving our businesses forward. A few examples. On the consumer banking side, we're accelerating our investments in digital with a particular focus on delivering a simple, easy-to-use, best-in-class customer experience for the most-used mobile app features. We're also simplifying and enhancing our product line, including launching Clear Access Banking, our low-cost, no-overdraft product, and we've opened over 500,000 new accounts since the launch last fall. And this summer, we will be improving the benefits of our portfolio by Wells Fargo checking customers. As I've spoken about before, we're underpenetrated in credit card given our customer footprint, and we're working on developing a significantly improved value proposition that we can introduce to the market. And on the commercial side, we're going after the middle-market investment banking opportunity in a different way than we have previously. This includes joint accountability, investments in talent, name-by-name client prioritization, and joint account planning. Mike will discuss capital more in his remarks, but our position remains extremely strong. We repurchased almost $600 million of common stock in the quarter. And based on the restrictions still in place for the second quarter, we have the capacity to return approximately $1.8 billion to shareholders. As a reminder, our asset cap limits our ability to deploy excess capital to our customers. Returning capital to shareholders remains a priority, and we look forward to resuming capital returns under the stress capital buffer methodology starting in the third quarter. Last quarter, I discussed constraints to achieving return on tangible common equity greater than 10% and then around 15%. I should note that those returns did not include credit loss reserve releases. The asset cap and capital return restrictions continue, but the progress on vaccination distribution, ongoing monetary policy, additional fiscal stimulus, and higher interest rates are helpful. We're in the midst of a multi-year transformation, and I'm confident that our operational and financial performance will continue to benefit from the progress we're making. I'd like to end by acknowledging that we've asked so much of our entire Wells Fargo team, and I'm proud of all the work they've done to support our customers and the communities we serve. We will continue to do all we can to support an equitable recovery and help those most in need of our support. I will now turn the call over to Mike.Mike Santomassimo -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Charlie, and good morning, everyone. Charlie highlighted many of the ways we're actively helping our customers and communities, which we highlighted on Slide 2, so I'm going to start with our first-quarter financial results on Slide 3. Net income for the quarter was $4.7 billion or $1.05 per common share. Revenue grew from both a year ago and the fourth quarter as the decline in net interest income was more than offset by higher noninterest income. Our first-quarter results included a $1.6 billion decrease in the allowance for credit losses. And as a reminder, in the first half of last year, we built reserves by a total of $11.5 billion, and we had $18 billion of allowance for credit losses at the end of the first quarter. We completed the sale of approximately half of our student loan portfolio in the first quarter, which resulted in a $208 million gain and $104 million goodwill writedown, and we closed the majority of the remaining portfolio just this past weekend. Our effective income tax rate in the first quarter was 6.4%, which included net discrete income tax benefits related to closing out prior year's tax matters. Our capital and liquidity remained strong. Our CET1 ratio increased to 11.8% under the standardized approach and 12.6% under the advanced approach. We repurchased 17.2 million shares of common stock for a total of $506 million -- $596 million and we had $33 billion of excess capital over our CET1 regulatory minimum at quarter-end. Our liquidity coverage ratio was 127%. Turning to Slide 5 which summarizes the financial impact of the business sales Charlie highlighted, we had included -- we have included the 2020 revenue and expense associated with the businesses in the slide. While they represented a little over 3% of 2020 revenue, the pre-tax earnings is much smaller. Note that the table does not include the credit costs associated with the student loan portfolio, which can have a meaningful impact on the business's P&L, and the expected expense reductions related to this business are incorporated into our $53 billion outlook for the year. Also, the expenses we have included related to the corporate trusts and asset management businesses are the total expenses for those businesses. Some of those expenses may continue after we close the deals as we have transition service agreements, and roughly 10% to 20% of those expenses are items such as corporate overhead that will take time to manage out of the expense run rate. In terms of segment reporting, the asset management business is now reported in corporate. Given that we announced the sale of the corporate trust business late in the quarter, that business is still included in commercial banking and will move to the corporate sector in the second quarter. Turning to credit quality on Slide 6. Our net charge-off ratio in the first quarter declined to 24 basis points, the lowest it's been in a number of years and down 14 basis points from a year ago. Our losses have trended significantly better than our expectations due to the impact of forbearance programs and the unprecedented amounts of government stimulus. While there's still a lot of uncertainty, there are encouraging and improving trends related to commercial credit quality. Commercial net loan charge-offs declined $159 million from the fourth quarter to 13 basis points, the lowest loss rate since the third quarter of 2019. The improvement was broad-based with declines in all asset types including $116 million of lower commercial real estate losses. As we have done since the start of the pandemic, we continue to closely monitor our exposure to retail, hotel, and office property types. The reopening in economy has had a positive impact on retail and hotel as cash flow levels have begun to improve. That said, stress remains and retail -- and retail, in particular, was the driver of charge-offs in the first quarter. Though clearly, there are negative demand trends in many office markets, the office portfolio continues to perform well and we're not seeing any widespread stress in the portfolio as of now. Consumer net charge-offs declined $221 million from a year ago with improvements across all asset types, but increased $88 million for the fourth quarter with higher losses in other consumer loans and credit card but still can -- but still continue to be low. Non-performing assets declined $692 million or 8% from the fourth quarter, driven by lower commercial nonaccruals primarily due to declines in energy and commercial real estate nonaccruals. $10.7 billion of our consumer loan portfolio, excluding government-insured loans remain in COVID-related payment deferrals at the end of the first quarter. We stopped offering non-real estate-related COVID deferrals in the fourth quarter, and 98% of the balances that were still in deferral at quarter-end were real estate-related. Loans that have already exited COVID deferrals have continued to perform better than we anticipated with over 95% of the balances current as of the end of the first quarter. Though we're not -- though we're still not all the way back to pre-pandemic levels, we've continued to adjust our credit policies to reflect better economic conditions. Due to the reserve release in the first quarter, our allowance coverage ratio declined from the fourth quarter but was up 90 basis points from a year ago. Similar to the fourth quarter, while observed performance has been strong, there was still a significant amount of uncertainty reflected in our allowance level at the end of the first quarter and we'll continue to assess the level of our allowance. If the economic trends continue, we would expect to have additional reserve releases. On Slide 8, we highlight loans and deposits. Our average loans declined for the third consecutive quarter and were down 9% from a year ago. The decline from the fourth quarter was driven by lower residential real estate loans due to continued high prepayments and resecuritization of loans we purchased out of mortgage-backed securities last year. Real estate loan balances have been impacted by actions we took early last year to discontinue correspondent, non-conforming originations, and home equity lending. We have started to originate correspondent, non-conforming loans again and should start to see more volume from this channel over time. Commercial loans were relatively stable from the fourth quarter but were down 8% from a year ago when there was a strong borrower draw activity during the early stages of the pandemic. Average deposits grew $55.5 billion or 4% from a year ago and 1% from the fourth quarter with growth in our consumer businesses and commercial banking, partially offset by declines in the corporate investment and banking business, corporate treasury, reflecting targeted actions to manage under the asset cap. With continued deposit growth, we have been actively managing down our long-term debt outstanding. We tendered for $6.8 billion of senior and subordinated debt in the first quarter. And along with maturities, total long-term debt declined $29.6 billion or 14% from the fourth -- fourth quarter and was down 23% from a year ago. Turning to net interest income on Slide 9. Net interest income declined 5% from the fourth quarter, driven by two fewer days, unfavorable hedge ineffectiveness accounting results, continued repricing of the balance sheet, and lower loan balances. These impacts were partially offset by the benefit of lower long-term debt. On the call last quarter, we provided our 2021 net interest income outlook. We still expect net interest income to be flat to down 4% from the annualized fourth-quarter level of $36.8 billion as the benefit of a steeper yield curve has been largely offset by softer-than-anticipated loan demand, low utilization rates on commercial loans, and faster-than-expected prepayments on residential mortgages. That said, it's important to recognize we are still early in the year and our ultimate results for the year will remain dependent on how rate in lending environments evolve. If rates follow the current forward curve and commercial loans grow as the economic recovery gains momentum which is expected by the industry, we would expect NII to land near the high end of the range. However, if loan demand proved softer than expectations, our total loan balance or -- and our total loan balance remains flat compared with where we ended the first quarter, we would expect to finish closer to the middle range. We continue to closely monitor the evolving trends across each of the major drivers and we'll provide updates to our outlook as the year progresses. Turning to expenses on Slide 10. Non-interest expense increased 7% from a year ago, driven by increased personnel expense. Deferred comp expense reduced personnel expenses in the first quarter of last year by $598 million. As a reminder, late in the second quarter of last year, we changed how we hedge deferred compensation which reduced the volatility in our reporting for this item starting in the third quarter of last year. Personnel expense also increased from a year ago from higher incentive and revenue-related compensation, including the impact of higher market valuations on stock-based compensation which was partially offset by lower salaries. All other expense was down 4% from a year ago, driven by lower professional services expense due to efficiency initiatives. Our expenses declined 5% from the fourth quarter, a seasonally higher personnel expense was more than offset by lower restructuring charges and operating losses. Our 2021 expense outlook is unchanged at approximately $53 billion with lower annualized expenses toward the end of the year. As we've said on our last earnings call, our outlook excludes restructuring charges and the costs of business exits such as the $104 million goodwill writedown related to the sale of student loans. We assumed $1 billion of operating losses in the outlook. The first quarter included $213 million of operating losses. But as you know, these expenses can be lumpy, especially as we continue to resolve legacy issues. We also assumed approximately $500 million of incremental revenue-related expenses as these have been higher than expected so far this year due to strong equity markets, which is a good thing, as revenue more than offsets any increase. If the current market level holds, we would expect incremental revenue-related compensations this year to be approximately $800 million, but we are still early in the year and will update you as the year progresses. We are continuing to execute on efficiency initiatives and additional initiatives continue to be identified and vetted. Turning to our business segments starting with consumer banking and lending on Slide 11. Net income increased from a year ago driven by revenue growth in home lending and lower provision for credit losses. Consumer and small business banking revenue declined 6% from a year ago, primarily due to the impact of lower interest rates and lower deposit-related fees. The decline in deposit-related fees was driven by higher average checking account balances and higher COVID-related fee waivers. We expect a high level of pay -- paycheck protection program loan forgiveness in the second quarter which would result in higher net interest income. But as a -- as a reminder, the fees on those loans originated last year are being donated, so you will see a corresponding increase in donation expense so it won't impact the bottom line. Home lending revenue increased 19% from a year ago on higher retail originations on gain -- on gain on sale margins. The 12% increase from the fourth quarter was primarily due to higher mortgage banking income related to the resecure -- resecuritization of loans we purchased from mortgage-backed securities last year, and an increase in retail originations. Credit card revenue declined 2% from both the fourth quarter and a year ago due to lower loan balances reflecting elevated payment rates. We continue to make progress in executing our efficiency initiatives in our branches, transaction volume continues to shift away from our branches with 82% of consumer and small business deposits in the first quarter done digitally, up from 76% a year ago. We've closed 395 branches since the first quarter of 2020, including 90 branches in the first quarter of 2021. We are on track to complete the remainder of the 250 branches we expect to consolidate this year. We've also continued to adjust staffing levels including the reductions related to branch closures. Importantly to date, we've been able to make these adjustments while reducing customer attrition and improving client satisfaction. Turning to some key business drivers on Slide 12, our first quarter retail mortgage duration -- origination volume was the highest since 2016. Total mortgage originations increased 8% from a year ago as a $6.7 billion decline in correspondent originations was more than offset by -- by $10.5 billion of higher retail originations. Total mortgage originations declined 4% from the fourth quarter due to the seasonal slowdown in the purchase market and as a growth -- and as growth in retail originations was more than offset by a decline in corresponding originations. While the mortgage origination market is expected to decline in the second quarter as the anticipated increase in the seasonal purchase market is expected to be more than offset by a decline in recent refinancings, we currently expect our origination volume to be robust as we have strong demand in the retail channel and we continue to build up volume in the correspondent, non-conforming market. Auto originations increased 32% from the fourth quarter and 8% from a year ago in a strong market with supply shortages for both new and used cars. With improving economics -- with the improving economic forecasts, we are gradually returning to pre-pandemic -- pre-pandemic underwriting policies. Turning to debit card. Purchase volume increased 3% from seasonally strong fourth-quarter levels. Debit card volume increased 20% from a year ago, reflecting higher consumer spending due to stimulus payments and improving economic conditions. And credit card purchase volume declined from seasonally high fourth-quarter levels. Purchase volume was up 6% from a year ago as lower year-over-year volume early in the quarter due to continued reductions. And travel and entertainment spend was more than offset by growth in March. Commercial banking net income was up from both the fourth quarter and a year ago due to a decline in the provision for credit losses. Middle-market banking revenue declined 20% from a year ago driven by the impact of lower interest rates, as well as lower loan balances from reduced client demand in line utilization. Asset-based lending and leasing revenue grew 7% from a year ago driven by higher net gains and equity securities and our strategic capital business as first -- first-quarter 2020 included impairments due to a decline in market valuations. This was partially offset by lower net interest income in the first quarter 2021 from lower loan balances. Non-interest expense increased 4% from a year ago, primarily driven by higher technology spend, partially offset by lower headcount and consulting expense related to efficiency initiatives. Average loans declined for the third consecutive quarter and were down 19% from a year ago as COVID-related charges were repaid and loan demand and credit line utilization remain weak. Average deposits were up 8% from a year ago as stimulus programs have injected significantly -- significant liquidity into the market. Turning to the corporate investment banking business on Slide 14. In banking, revenue declined 6% from a year ago, driven by the impact of lower interest rates and lower deposit balances, and grew 7% from the fourth quarter. The linked quarter growth was driven by a 20% increase in investment banking revenue with strong debt and equity originations, partially offset by a decline in advisory fees from strong fourth-quarter levels. Commercial real estate revenue grew 5% from a year ago, primarily due to improved CMBS gain on sale margins, driven by spread tightening, as well as an increase in low-income housing tax credit income. Market revenue increased 19% from a year ago and strong client demand for asset-backed finance products, other credit products, and municipal bonds which was partially offset by lower demand for rates, products, and lower equities and commodities revenue. Average deposits declined 27% and average trading-related assets were down 14% from a year ago, primarily driven by continued actions we've taken to manage under the asset cap. As I mentioned earlier, wealth and investment management results exclude Wells Fargo Asset Management, which is now reported in corporate, and prior periods have been revised. Net income declined 18% in the business from the fourth quarter. Revenue grew reflecting higher asset-based fees and higher retail brokerage transactional activity. Expenses were up due to seasonally higher personnel expense. Net -- net income declined 8% from a year ago reflecting the impact of low interest rates and interest income, partially offset by the higher asset-based fees. We ended the first quarter with record client assets of $2 trillion, up 28% from a year ago, reflecting strong market performance. Net flows into advisory account -- accounts improved in the first quarter from a year ago in the fourth quarter. Average deposits were up 19% from a year ago and average loans increased 4% from a year ago, largely due to customer demand for securities-based lending offerings. Slide 16 highlights our corporate results which included $1.2 billion of lower net interest income from a year ago, primarily due to the impact of lower interest rates, offset by a $1.4 billion increase in non-interest income. First-quarter 2020 included equity impairments in our affiliated venture capital and private equity partnerships and results in the first quarter of 2021 included a $208 million gain on the sale to student loans portfolio. Noninterest expense declined from the fourth quarter on lower restructuring charges. And we'll now take your questions. 