  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by, and welcome to the DuPont third quarter 2021 earnings and strategic update conference call. [Operator instructions]. I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, head of investor relations, Pat Fitzgerald. Thank you. Please go ahead.Pat Fitzgerald -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Good morning, and thank you for joining us for DuPont's third quarter 2021 earnings conference call. On today's call, we will also discuss two strategic actions that we announced this morning. We are making this call available to investors and media via webcast. We will extend today's call to approximately 90 minutes to allow for Q&A related to both earnings and the strategic announcements. We have prepared slides to supplement our comments during this conference call. These slides are posted on the Investor Relations section of DuPont's website and through the link to our webcast. Joining me on the call today are Ed Breen, chief executive officer; and Lori Koch, chief financial officer. Jon Kemp, president of electronics and industrial, will also join for the Q&A session.Please read the forward-looking statement disclaimer contained in the slides. During our call, we will make forward-looking statements regarding our expectations or predictions about the future. Because these statements are based on current assumptions and factors that involve risk and uncertainty, our actual performance and results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Our 2020 Form 10-K, as updated by our current and periodic reports, include detailed discussions of principal risks and uncertainties which may cause such differences. Unless otherwise specified, all historical financial measures presented today exclude significant items. We will also refer to other non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in our press release and posted to the Investor page of our website. I'll now turn the call over to Ed. 

 



Ed Breen -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Pat. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. In addition to our excellent quarterly results, I am pleased by the opportunity today to talk about two significant strategic news we are making to further strengthen our portfolio and deliver long-term value for our shareholders. I will provide a brief overview of these announcements before Lori walks you through earnings, and then I'll be back to go into more depth on our announcements today. Our teams delivered outstanding results in the third quarter, above the high end of our guidance ranges for sales, operating EBITDA, and adjusted EPS, highlighted by the actions we took to implement price increases to stay ahead of raw material inflation. In the quarter, we delivered a neutral price/cost impact for the company, which is a proof point in effectively managing the levers within our control to deliver strong results. Market demand in nearly every one of our end markets was strong, and our supply chain organization executed well in a challenging environment to deliver for our customers. Organic growth was up high single to double digits in every segment in the quarter. I am pleased by the quick actions our teams took to position us to continue managing the supply chain challenges and raw material cost pressures effectively as we head into the fourth quarter. As Lori will cover in a few minutes, we expect to fully offset raw material price headwinds again in the fourth quarter. As I mentioned, we also announced two strategic transactions this morning, the acquisition of Rogers Corporation and our intent to divest a substantial portion of our mobility and materials segment will significantly strengthen DuPont's position in our core high-growth, high-margin markets with a focus on electronics, water, protection, industrial technologies and next-generation automotive. In addition to focusing the portfolio, these strategic actions will accelerate our top-line growth, operating EBITDA margins, and significantly improve our earnings stability.

 



 The combined transactions will allow us to benchmark extremely well against best-in-class multi-industrial peers, thereby resulting in long-term value creation. I will cover the details of the Rogers and M&M transactions in a moment, but, first, let me turn it over to Lori to discuss the quarter, as well as our outlook, for the remainder of the year. Lori Koch -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Ed, and good morning, everyone. As Ed mentioned, customer demand across almost all of our end markets remained strong in the third quarter. We saw continued improvement in many of the industrial end markets adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as global economies continue their recovery. Organic growth in the quarter was up 16% versus 2020. We delivered net sales, operating EBITDA, and adjusted EPS above the high end of our third quarter guidance. In addition, we had strong cash flow generation and returned $657 million of capital to shareholders during the quarter through $500 million in share repurchases and $157 million in dividends. We now have $875 million in share repurchases remaining under our existing authorization, which expires next June, and we expect to complete the full year 2021 with about $2 billion in share repurchases, which is at the high end of the range that we provided earlier this year. Net sales of $4.3 billion were up 18% versus the third quarter of 2020, up 16% on an organic basis. Organic sales growth consists of 10% volume improvement and 6% pricing gains, reflecting the continued actions we are taking to offset inflationary pressure. Excluding the impact of metals, price was up about 5% during the quarter. A 1% portfolio tailwind reflects the net impact of strong top-line results related to our acquisition of Laird Performance Materials and headwinds from the noncore divestitures. Currency provided a 1% tailwind in the quarter. Overall sales growth was broad-based and reflects high single to low double-digit volume growth in all three of our reporting segments. Double-digit organic growth within Asia Pacific, Europe, and North America reflect continued strong demand in our key end markets. From an earnings perspective, we delivered operating EBITDA of $1.09 billion and adjusted EPS of $1.15 per share, up 20% and about 90%, respectively, versus the year-ago period. The earnings improvement was driven by strong volumes across all three reporting segments and earnings uplift from the Laird Performance Materials acquisition. The swift pricing actions that we implemented earlier this year in the face of raw material inflation continued to benefit our operating results. For the total company, our selling price increases during the quarter again offset raw material inflation. Gross margin was up about 160 basis points versus last year, reflecting increases in both M&M and E&I. Operating EBITDA margin of 25.5% was in line with our third quarter guidance expectations and reflects 50 basis points of margin expansion versus the prior year. Incremental margins were about 28% during the third quarter versus last year. However, if you exclude the impact of price and cost, our operating EBITDA margin for the quarter would have been nearly 27% and incremental margin would have been over 40%, reflecting very strong underlying operating performance. I have also mentioned previously that we track our operating performance for our core results on an underlying basis versus 2019 given the unique nature of 2020 and certain discrete items that impacted our operating results in the prior year. In comparing our third quarter results to pre-pandemic levels, sales for our core businesses were up 15% versus 2019, with operating EBITDA leverage at 1.4 times on an underlying basis despite the global challenges around supply chain pressures and raw material inflation. From a segment earnings perspective, E&I delivered 13% operating EBITDA improvement on strong volume and better-than-expected results from Laird as we continue to integrate this business with our current electronics offering. The year-over-year comparison includes a headwind, resulting from a technology sale in the prior year. Adjusting for this item, operating EBITDA was up about 20%, with margins essentially flat between both periods. In W&P, operating EBITDA increased 12% versus the year-ago period on volume growth, primarily reflecting recovery in industrial end markets for aramid fibers and the absence of charges related to temporarily idle facilities in the prior year. We were proactive in implementing pricing actions during the quarter in W&P. However, these actions were more than offset by raw material inflation and logistics costs, which resulted in headwinds to margins and operating leverage. We expect sequential price improvement as we continue to implement increases in response to raw material inflation. M&M delivered 75% improvement in operating EBITDA or about 2.5 times operating leverage compared to the year-ago period. The improvement reflects higher volumes across all end markets, net pricing gains in response to raw material inflation, and the absence of charges related to temporarily idle facilities in the prior year. For the quarter, cash flow from operating activities was $842 million, and capital expenditures of $208 million resulted in free cash flow of $634 million. Free cash flow conversion of 112% was up significantly compared to the second quarter. Turning to Slide 4, which provides more detail on the year-over-year changes in net sales for the quarter. Strong customer demand across almost all of our end markets, including the continued recovery in many industrial end markets and the efforts of our supply chain organization, drove organic sales growth of 16% during the third quarter. In E&I, volume gains delivered 9% organic sales growth for the segment, led by double-digit volume gains in both industrial solutions and semiconductors technologies. The sales growth in industrial solutions reflects strong demand across all product lines, but most notably in OLED displays for new phone and television launches, medical silicones in healthcare and Kalrez seals within electronics, along with a continued recovery in aerospace. Semiconductor technologies continues to benefit from robust demand driven by the ongoing transition to more advanced new technology and growth in electronic megatrends, and we expect these strong demand trends to continue in the fourth quarter. Within Interconnect Solutions, organic sales decline in the mid-single digits, reflects the anticipated impact of the shift in demand related to premium, next-generation smartphones to the first half of this year, along with softness in automotive end markets due to the semi-chip shortage. We expect these headwinds to continue in the fourth quarter; however, we do expect organic growth of ICS to be up mid-single digits on a full year basis. For W&P, 11% organic sales growth during the quarter consisted of 9% volume improvement and 2% pricing gains. Continued recovery in industrial end markets resulted in significant volume improvement for Nomex and Kevlar aramid fibers within Safety Solutions, which was up double digits on an organic basis. For Shelter Solutions, continued recovery in commercial construction led by demand for Corian surfaces contribute to high single-digit organic growth. In addition, we saw continued strength in North American residential construction market for products, including Styrofoam and Tyvek house wrap and the retail channel for do-it-yourself applications. Organic sales for water solutions were up low single digits during the quarter as global demand for clean water technology remained strong. However, logistics challenges do remain and have impacted our ability to meet demand. Pricing gains for W&P during the quarter reflect actions taken to mitigate raw material inflation, mainly within shelter and safety. M&M top-line results reflect another strong quarter with organic sales growth of 28% on a 16% price increase and 12% volume improvement and included double-digit organic growth in each of engineering polymers, performance resins, and advanced solutions. Throughout the year, our M&M segment has been the most significantly impacted by raw material inflation. As such, the 16% price increase reflects the continued actions we have been taking to offset these higher raw material costs and also reflects higher metals pricing in our advanced solutions business. Excluding the metals impact, price was up about 12% during the quarter. Looking ahead, while our global supply constraints of key raw materials have improved in M&M compared to earlier in the year and auto demand remained strong among consumers, we do expect softness in the fourth quarter as the global chip shortage continues. Turning to Slide 5. Adjusted EPS of $1.15 was up about 90% from $0.61 per share in the year-ago period. Higher segment earnings resulted in a net benefit to EPS of about $0.20 per share, driven by higher volumes and strong results from Laird. As I mentioned, we were price-cost neutral during the quarter given the pricing actions we have been taking to offset raw material inflation. Our lower share count continues to provide a benefit to adjusted EPS, specifically a $0.33 benefit for the third quarter. Benefits from lower interest expense in the current quarter from delevering actions earlier in the year was mostly offset by a higher base tax rate compared to the last year. For full year 2021, we expect our base tax rate to be about 21%. Turning to Slide 6, I'll discuss our outlook and guidance for the full year 2021. We expect strong underlying demand trends to continue in the fourth quarter in almost all of our end markets and have seen signs of these trends in the month of October. However, we are starting to see the ongoing semiconductor chip shortage impacts our downstream customers' ability to produce, which is creating some deceleration in order patterns, primarily in automotive end markets, where IHS [Inaudible] estimates for the second half have been cut by 17%. Due primarily to the softness attributable to the semiconductor chip shortage, we are lowering the midpoint and narrowing the range of our full year guidance for net sales, operating EBITDA, and adjusted EPS compared to our previous estimates. At the midpoint of the ranges provided, we now expect net sales for the year to be about $16.37 billion, down from the midpoint of our previous estimate of $16.5 billion. Similarly, we now expect operating EBITDA and adjusted EPS to be about $4.15 billion and $4.20 per share, respectively. This is not a demand or market share issue or our inability to continue to pass on prices or effectively manage our global supply chain. As our third quarter results demonstrate, we have successfully executed on each of these. This is purely a result of the global semiconductor shortage, which is impacting our customers' ability to produce and thereby pushing out demand. With that, let me turn it back over to Ed. Ed Breen -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Lori. I'm excited to share with you more detail on the two significant strategic news we announced this morning, which will further strengthen our portfolio and deliver long-term value for our shareholders. The announcement of an agreement to acquire Rogers Corporation and our intent to divest a significant portion of our M&M segment are substantial moves, advancing our strategy to shift the portfolio toward higher-growth and higher-margin businesses, while significantly enhancing the earnings stability of the company. The acquisition of Rogers will build on the Laird performance materials' acquisition that we closed July 1, adding another high-quality business that expands our leading market position across highly attractive end markets. Rogers is a market leader in each of their primary product categories and brings a world-class organization with differentiated technology, innovation capabilities, technical expertise, and deep customer relationships, the same value proposition that differentiates our DuPont businesses. Rogers operates in end markets, where we have already established leading positions, such as consumer and mobile electronics, and in others that are adjacent to our businesses, such as 5G infrastructure and electric vehicles, enabling us to offer an even more attractive total value proposition to a broader base of customers and creating the opportunity to compound growth over time given complementary products and markets. While M&M has been the market leader in high-performance thermoplastics serving automotive, electronics, industrial, and consumer markets, we believe DuPont is no longer the best owner for this asset. By separating M&M from the rest of the portfolio, we are better positioning the business to expand on its leadership position in these markets and continue to tackle some of the industry's most critical challenges, such as vehicle safety and fuel efficiency. We will leverage existing tax attributes to complete a highly efficient cash sale of the M&M business, providing ample funding to finance the Rogers acquisition, as well as further M&A and share repurchases, while maintaining a strong investment-grade credit rating. We have a few key targets, which like Laird and Rogers, we have been spending for a few years that would be excellent additions to our portfolio. Following the completion of the intended Rogers acquisition and the planned divestiture of M&M, DuPont will focus on key emerging technologies and have enhanced top-line growth. Our participation in the auto markets going forward is much more connected to high-margin, advanced technologies, enabling long-term secular trends, like hybrid and electric vehicles, as well as advanced driver systems. A large portion of our order exposure will be aligned to EVs and ADAS, both of which are growing at a significant pace. This improved balance in our end markets will drive further consistency in our results and allow us to deliver best-in-class results among our multi-industrial peers, strengthening our position in clean energy and electric vehicles, combined with our existing positions in water, safety, and protection technologies will continue to advance our customer sustainability priorities. Slide 8 shows the modeling we have done for the company, assuming the completion of both the M&M divestiture and the Rogers acquisition, including full achievement of the planned cost synergies. As you can see, pro forma DuPont will benchmark well above our top multi-industrial peers on both organic growth and EBITDA margin and in line with this high-performing peer set on cyclicality, which we measure as peak-to-trough earnings volatility. Our historical sales growth for the new portfolio will improve by 40 basis points to 3.8%, which is nearly two times the growth rate of the top peers. This growth is driven by our exposure to high-growth end markets. For example, the semiconductor materials market is expected to grow at 4% to 6% per year which is evidenced by the significant investments in new fabs we are seeing in all regions of the world. Our $2 billion Semiconductor Technologies business, which holds leading positions in materials for both wafer production and packaging is positioned to outgrow the market by 200 to 300 basis points. Likewise, our $1.4 billion Water business operates in markets that are expected to grow high-single digits driven by the global response to concerns, such as water scarcity and circularity. The acquisition we are making also increases our exposures in high-growth markets, such as EV, which is a market growing at 30% per year. Rogers' high-performance elastomers, specialty busbars, and thermal substrates complement our existing materials, such as gap fillers, adhesives, and Nomex papers. In the new portfolio, the strength in these businesses will accelerate the performance. In 2020, our top line for the core business declined about 5%, which was a solid result compared to our top multi-industrial peers, which were down about 8%. Our new portfolio would have declined less than 3% during the worst of the recession in recent years, a substantial differential versus the peer set. We have taken several actions to drive top quartile EBITDA margins at DuPont. The M&M and Rogers transactions will deliver an additional 140 basis points of margin improvement on a 2021 basis, putting us well above our top multi-industrial peers. The new portfolio is a collection of specialty businesses underpinned by innovation, customer relationships, and manufacturing excellence, a combination that supports robust, sustainable margins. I'm also excited about the consistency these transactions will bring to our results. Strong ties to secular growth drivers will limit the earnings volatility of the company throughout the cycle. You can see the earnings volatility of the DuPont portfolio was significant from 2019 to 2020, primarily associated with the M&M segment. The same is true as we look back further where the cyclicality in the portfolio was driven by M&M. Looking forward, our portfolio have minimal exposure to commodity feedstocks and, as a result, our cyclicality will significantly improve by 700 basis points to be in line with the top tiers. In addition to comparing to our top multi-industrial peer set, we also looked at how the new portfolio will benchmark against the entire set of 24 multi-industrial companies. The results are the same: we will benchmark well above the median of the entire multi-industrial group on both growth and margin and in line on cyclicality. With a more clearly defined portfolio and by improving the top-line growth, EBITDA margins, and cyclicality of the company to be well above our peer set, I am confident the quality of our businesses will be recognized, which will translate into a valuation comparable to top peers. Getting DuPont to this point has been a multiyear journey, with decisive moves aligned with our value creation levers of active portfolio management, a best-in-class operating model, and disciplined capital allocation. Slide 9 shows the actions we have taken to transform the DuPont portfolio to a combination of world-class businesses centered in long-term, secular, high-growth areas. Our strategy is intentional and included strategic decisions to shift the company to higher-growth, higher-margin businesses with less cyclicality, while also pursuing acquisitions to strengthen our leadership position and innovation capabilities in the secular growth areas of electronics, water, protection, industrial technologies, and next-generation automotive. Our portfolio transformation started with the identification of noncore businesses, where our innovation, technical expertise, and close customer relationships no longer drove a competitive advantage within the DuPont portfolio. We have been successful at identifying great owners for a majority of these businesses and our work continues. We expect to close the sale of the Clean Tech business before the end of the year for around $510 million. Earlier this year, we finalized the separation of the N&B business and an RMT transaction with IFF, creating a powerhouse in the food, beverage, health, and biosciences markets. Separation of N&B provided a lift to the top-line growth and operating EBITDA margins at the DuPont portfolio as N&B was at the low end of the portfolio on both measures. This was an unmatched opportunity to advance the DuPont strategy, including the receipt of $7.3 billion in tax-free proceeds, which we redeployed to create shareholder value and position N&B and IFF for future success. Today's announcement of our intent to divest a significant portion of the M&M segment is the next step to advance our transformational strategy by increasing the resiliency and earnings stability of our portfolio. Throughout, we have carefully assessed acquisition targets, which can strengthen our leadership positions in the secular areas of electronics, water, protection, industrial technologies, and next-generation automotive. As I have said before, we are strategic in our approach and only pursue targets that can be justified financially and that operate in our existing markets to minimize integration and execution risks. We prefer acquisitions that provide a significant synergy opportunity, similar to what we saw with the water acquisitions we completed in late 2019, the Laird acquisition earlier this year, and the intended acquisition of Rogers. We also only pursue targets where innovation and our technical capabilities set us apart, which is the case for both Laird and Rogers. Our transformation strategy has also been underpinned by operational improvements. We have made fundamental changes in the way DuPont is run. We have the full P&L accountability into the businesses by moving oversight of manufacturing, operations, and R&D under our business presidents. We spend approximately 4% of sales on R&D, and we no longer operate a central R&D function. Instead, we have empowered our businesses to allocate R&D dollars to the projects that are most critical to their growth and then hold them accountable for delivering results. The same is true for capital spending, the majority of which has been focused on capacity-constrained areas. Throughout our transformation, the strength of our balance sheet has been and remains a priority. Following the N&B separation, we delevered our balance sheet to maintain a debt-to-EBITDA ratio and credit rating that provides us flexibility. We also continue to control our costs at both our manufacturing facilities, as well as in our corporate functions. We have been prudent at taking cost out of our G&A line and today have a best-in-class cost structure. The work in our manufacturing facilities is ongoing through continuous productivity and asset reliability improvements using new digital tools, which is an integral part of our operating plants today. The combination of focusing the portfolio and operational improvements have been part of our strategy to unlock shareholder value and strengthen the company. The M&M and Rogers announcements are significant strategic steps in our transformation. I'll move to Slide 10 to provide more details on the Rogers agreement. Our modeling of Rogers is based on our 2022 estimated EBITDA of $270 million, which we are highly confident the business will achieve based on a thorough diligence process, including a detailed review of their projections and assumptions. The purchase price of about $5.2 billion represents a 19 times EBITDA multiple based on 2022 estimates before synergies. The multiple is expected to be below 14 times after cost synergies. We are highly confident in the synergy number of approximately $115 million and our ability to achieve most of the forecasted synergies by the end of 2023, within 18 months of closing. We expect Rogers to be accretive to top-line growth, operating EBITDA, free cash flow, and adjusted EPS upon closing. We expect sizable revenue synergies from the combination of E&I, Laird, and Rogers. But consistent with how we justify old deals, we have not assumed any revenue synergies in our modeling. And we expect closing to take approximately six months, putting us in the second quarter of 2022. Because the Rogers transaction will close before we expect the M&M divestiture close, in funding the acquisition, we expect to prioritize prepayable debt, which can be retired upon receipt of the M&M proceeds to return our leverage to more normal levels. Slide 11 provides more detail on the synergy opportunities. DuPont is in a unique position to extract value from this combination due to the synergy opportunity that comes not only from having one of the largest electronic material businesses in the industry but also from the acquisition of Laird that we completed a few months ago. We looked across all three organizations to determine where there were synergy opportunities. As is the case in many of our transactions, where we combine businesses, we have complementary product offerings in similar segments. We expect significant synergies in procurement spend, as well as G&A costs. Because Rogers is a public company, we will also realize savings associated with folding them into our structure. Our anticipated Rogers cost synergies of $115 million, combined with the cost synergies we anticipate from the Laird acquisition, total approximately 6% of the combined revenue of our Interconnect Solutions business, Laird and Rogers, which is a very achievable synergy target. As I mentioned, we expect to achieve most of these synergies with 18 months of closing. Turning to Slide 12, I'll provide more detail on the business. Rogers Corporation is a $950 million business with broad end-market exposure. We expect Rogers' top line to grow in the high single digits, accelerated by leading positions in the rapidly growing categories of electric vehicles and advanced driver systems. The benefits of the planned synergies will deliver uplift to the EBITDA margins across all three businesses. Rogers has two operating segments with leading positions in each. The first segment is advanced electronic solutions, which includes the high-frequency circuit board laminates business and the power electronics business. Rogers' second segment is elastomeric material solutions. The high-frequency circuit board laminates business complements our existing printed circuit board business within Interconnect Solutions. This is approximately a $300 million business that manufactures copper-clad laminates for high-frequency circuits using ADAS radars, 4G/5G base stations, and military communications. Also included in the advanced electronic solutions segment is the power electronics business, which includes both ceramic substrates and specialty busbars for high-power conversion used in applications, such as electric motors for trains, ships, automobiles, and wind turbines. Specialty busbars are used instead of cable harness systems and high-power conversion applications when highly stable and reliable power conversion is critical. This is about a $250 million business today but poised for significant growth with exposure to next-generation technologies, including battery applications for hybrid and electric vehicles. The second segment is the Elastomeric Materials Solutions segment, approximately a $400 million business, which manufactures precision phones and silicon materials with high reliability and high purity for cushioning, sealing, impact protection, and vibration management across the number of growing end markets. This segment also has high exposure to electric vehicles for battery applications. On Slide 13, you can see the significant offerings in the combined entity through the examples of the electric vehicle, 5G infrastructure, consumer electronics and clean energy. The increased opportunity in electric and autonomous vehicles from the combination of Laird and Rogers adds to DuPont's existing material offerings into the electric vehicle. In a segment that is growing 30% per year, this is a tremendous opportunity to increase our share of wallet with offerings, such as gap fillers, adhesives, and Nomex paper from DuPont; high-performance elastomers, specialty busbars, and thermal substrates from Rogers; and electromagnetic shielding and thermal management solutions from Laird. Likewise, Laird and Rogers expand our offering in consumer electronics where DuPont is already a leading material supplier through all three businesses within the E&I segment: semiconductor technologies, interconnect solutions, and industrial solutions. EMI shielding, thermal interface materials, and multifunctional solutions from Laird, as well as high-performance elastomers from Rogers, will make us an even more complete material supplier to leading OEMs. The combined application engineering and design expertise will be unmatched in the industry. We are very excited about the technical skills that will transfer to DuPont through both of these acquisitions, which will enable the businesses to continue working with customers to solve their most critical challenges using our combined portfolio of advanced technologies, a hallmark of all three companies. Customers in these industries demand this level of sophisticated innovation and partnership. You can see how the acquisition of Laird and Rogers supports our strategy to expand our presence in high-growth secular end markets and creates opportunity for compounding growth across related products and markets. Slide 14 shows the combination of the Laird acquisition and the Rogers acquisition is highly complementary and can expand our addressable markets within key electronics segments by 50%. The addition of Laird and Rogers provides an entry way into markets, such as clean energy, wireless infrastructure, and defense electronics, where we previously had little exposure, but will now have distinct competitive advantages. We see further opportunities for growth by leveraging the DuPont technologies across these additional electronics markets. The timing could not be better to enter these markets. The world is making significant investments in 5G infrastructure, clean energy, and hybrid and electric vehicles, to name a few. These investments are leading to rapid growth in these areas. Rogers has been making significant investments in these areas and has a rich pipeline of offerings that will support the next-generation technologies. The acquisition creates an exciting opportunity to capture this growth, which we think will be compounded by leverage of the combined E&I, Laird, and Rogers platforms. Moving to the intended M&M divestiture, on Slide 15. At DuPont, we have a proven history of adapting the best owner mindset for each of our businesses. We constantly scrutinize our portfolio to ensure fit with our business objectives and to create as much long-term value as possible for our shareholders, customers and employees. By announcing that we have initiated a process to divest the majority of our M&M segment, we are committing to do just that: finding the right owner for a tremendous asset. The business to be sold predominantly includes the engineered polymers and performance resins lines of business. Approximately $700 million of current year revenue, M&M segment is not included in the scope of the divestiture and includes the automotive, adhesives, and multi-based businesses, which align nicely with our offering for EVs and industrial technologies. The portfolio to be divested is expected to generate revenue this year of about $4.2 billion and about $1 billion of EBITDA. M&M is an industry-leading combination of high-quality businesses with best-in-class technology and application development, deep customer relationships, brands, and manufacturing excellence. The business is well-positioned to capitalize on the continued transition to hybrid electric vehicles and other emerging megatrends. The business is also poised to outperform its peers through the cycle, with a lean G&A structure, efficient manufacturing processes, and a reliable supply chain of key raw materials. We expect that the divestiture process will move quickly. In fact, we will launch a marketing process in the coming days. We have considered multiple deal structures as part of the strategic review. We believe a transaction that maximizes the net cash proceeds to DuPont will enable us to build on our core areas of strength, like the Laird and Rogers transaction, and create significant value for our shareholders. I look forward to updating you as our process advances. I'll wrap up with a few comments on why I'm excited about their future at DuPont on Slide 16. With the completion of the Rogers acquisition and the M&M divestiture, DuPont will be building around our core foundational pillars, including electronics, water, protection, industrial technologies, and next-generation automotive. Each of these areas is experiencing rapid growth as a result of significant secular tailwinds with long-term growth drivers, from high-frequency connectivity in the most advanced technologies to water scarcity in some of the most remote parts of the world, the technical demands of our customers are high and we have a unique advanced technologies to partner with them to solve these global challenges. The actions we have already taken, along with those we announced today, enable us to strengthen our leadership position in each of the markets we serve. I am confident this will lead to significant opportunities for employees and unmatched solutions for our customers. We are also creating an opportunity for significant value creation for our shareholders. As I mentioned previously, the combined transaction enhanced our financial profile through higher growth, higher margins, and significantly more stability. We will be positioned to outperform throughout the cycle. These are indicators of a strong, healthy, and vibrant company, and I'm confident we will benchmark with the best of our multi-industrial peers. Our capital allocation will remain balanced, returning value to our shareholders through a consistent dividend, that we expect to grow with earnings and share repurchases, as well as a strong balance sheet, have been and will continue to be priorities for DuPont. We will also continue to invest in our business to grow organically and support their growth through select and targeted M&A. With that, let me turn it to Pat to open the Q&A. Pat Fitzgerald -- Head of Investor Relations Thanks, Ed. Before we move to the Q&A portion of our call, I would like to remind you that our forward-looking statements apply to both our prepared remarks and the following Q&A. [Operator instructions]. Operator, please provide the Q&A instructions. 