  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the American Express Q1 2022 earnings call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, head of investor relations, Ms. Vivian Zhou. Please, go ahead.Vivian Zhou -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Alan, and thank you, all, for joining today's call. As a reminder, before we begin, today's discussion contains forward-looking statements about the company's future business and financial performance. These are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements are included in today's presentation slides and in our reports on file with the SEC. The discussion today also contains non-GAAP financial measures. The comparable GAAP financial measures are included in this quarter's earnings materials, as well as the earnings materials for the prior periods we discussed. All of these are posted on our website at ir.americanexpress.com. We will begin today with Steve Squeri, chairman and CEO, who will start with some remarks about the company's progress and results; and then Jeff Campbell, chief financial officer, will provide a more detailed review of our financial performance.After that, we will move to Q&A on the results with both Steve and Jeff. With that, let me turn it over to Steve. Steve Squeri -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Vivian, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our first quarter earnings call. At our investor day last month, we took you through a detailed discussion of our strategies for driving sustainable growth across our businesses and explain why we are confident we can achieve our growth plan aspirations for 2024 and beyond. As we said then, our confidence is based on three interrelated factors: the success of the strategy we've been pursuing over the past several years, which focuses on investing in our brand, customers, value propositions, coverage, technology, and talent to build share, scale, and relevance; the momentum we've been generating through the effective execution of that strategy; and a number of structural shifts in the payment industry that are contributing to our momentum. The strong first quarter results we announced today are tracking in line with our expectations for the full year, despite the uncertain macro environment, and they reinforce our confidence in our ability to achieve our longer-term aspirations. For the quarter, revenues were 11.7 billion, up 29% year over year, and earnings were -- earnings per share were $2.73. These results reflect continued momentum in our core business in areas that are critical to sustainable long-term growth, including customer acquisition, engagement, and retention, as well as outstanding credit performance. New proprietary card acquisitions remain at their strong pace, reaching three million this quarter, which continues to be driven by strong demand for our premium fee-based products, particularly among millennial and Gen Z consumers, and small and medium-sized businesses in the U.S. We had an all-time high in acquisitions of U.S. Consumer Platinum and Gold Cards, as well as U.S. Business Platinum Cards this quarter. Delta Card acquisitions reached an all-time monthly high in March, an indication of the growing demand for travel-related products and services. Regarding customer engagement, we look at a variety of indicators to measure progress. For example, Card Member engagement with our digital capabilities continues to grow with daily active users across the web and mobile up double digits over last year. We're also seeing strong engagement with the new benefits we added to our recently refreshed Consumer Platinum Card, particularly among millennial and Gen Z Card Members, nearly half of whom have used at least one of the new travel and lifestyle benefits to date. And we continue to see an acceleration in customer engagement with our Resy dining platform, including strong double-digit growth over the last quarter in a number of Amex cards on file and a number of restaurants participating in our global dining access program.

 



 March was one of Resy's best months on record for reservations, up nearly 16% over February. Ultimately, the key metric to gauge customer engagement is spending growth. Overall bill business grew 35% in Q1 global year over year on an FX-adjusted basis, and we saw our highest volumes ever in March, surpassing our previous highest of December of 2021. Spending growth was led by the acceleration of volumes from millennial and Gen Z consumers, up 56%, and SME is up 30% on an FX-adjusted basis over last year. Goods and services spending continued to accelerate in the quarter, growing 21% on an FX-adjusted basis over last year. Travel and entertainment spending was up 121% globally on an FX-adjusted basis year over year, driven by strong growth in consumer travel spending. Customer retention remains at the very high levels I mentioned at investor day, an indication of the value our customers continue to place in Amex membership. A major contributor to our success across all of these areas is the ongoing expansion of many partnerships, which go well beyond our large strategic partners like Delta, Hilton, and Amazon. We continue to extend relationships with a variety of companies that are adding differentiated value to our membership model. For example, last week, we announced a new financial advice service with Vanguard, exclusive for our U.S. consumer Card Members, which brings together Vanguard's digital financial planning and investment management expertise with our industry-leading membership rewards. This is just the latest example of how we're expanding our value propositions beyond our traditional card offerings to meet more of our customers' financial and lifestyle needs. In addition, we're accelerating our focus on fintechs to drive more innovation, including our new partnership with i2c, which will enable fintechs to more seamlessly and quickly issue new products on the American Express network. We also continue to make progress on our ESG initiatives, which are important components of our overall business strategy because we recognize that when our customers, communities, and colleagues thrive, so does our company. On a diversity equity inclusion front, we are more than three quarters away toward our goal of investing $1 billion in a wide range of actions by 2024, including increasing spend with diverse suppliers, providing resources and financial assistance to minority-owned SMEs in the U.S. and maintaining pay equity across genders globally and ethnicities in the U.S. among other efforts. Our DEI progress was cited as one of the key reasons, along with our flexible work policies for our No. 8 ranking on Fortune's 2022 list of the best U.S. companies to work for, which was announced last week. This is the third consecutive year we've been in the top 10, which helps us attract and retain talent. And we recently announced a series of initiatives coinciding with Earth Month that are designed to engage our customers, community partners, and colleagues in our climate efforts, including the goal of significantly expanding the use of recycled plastic in our card products. These initiatives build on the work we've already done and continue our efforts to reduce our own carbon footprint, including our commitment to net-zero carbon emissions by 2035. In summary, with this solid start to the year, the continued tailwinds we expect from the ongoing recovery from the pandemic, we're reaffirming our full year guidance of delivering revenue growth in the range of 18% to 20% and earnings per share of between $9.25 and $9.65. Furthermore, we remain confident that successful execution of our strategy will position us well as we seek to achieve our long-term growth plan aspirations of revenue growth in excess of 10% and mid-teens EPS growth in 2024 and beyond. I'll now turn it over to Jeff for a deeper dive on the quarter. Thank you.Jeff Campbell -- Chief Financial Officer Well, thank you, Steve, and good morning, everyone. It's great to be here to talk about our first quarter results, which reflect a solid start to 2022 and are tracking in line with the guidance we gave for the full year and with our aspiration to build growth momentum beyond 2022. Starting with our summary financials on Slide 2. Most importantly, our first quarter revenues were $11.7 billion, up 31% on an FX-adjusted basis, consistent with the momentum we have built and our longer-term growth aspirations. Our reported first quarter net income was $2.1 billion with earnings per share of $2.73. As you know, year over year comparisons of net income have been challenging for the industry over the past two years due to the volatility that the pandemic has caused in credit reserve adjustments. For that reason, we thought it would be a helpful supplemental disclosure this quarter to include our pre-tax pre-provision income. That number was $2.7 billion in the first quarter, up 16% versus the comparable number in 2021, reflecting growth in our core earnings. So, now, let's get into a little more detailed look at our results, starting with volumes. As you can see in our slides, we have mostly gone back to reporting our volumes on a year-over-year basis, moving away from the comparisons to 2019 that we have done in recent quarters. We think that returning to a focus on year-over-year comparison gives you a better view of the momentum we have built and the momentum we are seeking to maintain, as we look toward our longer-term growth objectives. Starting on Slide 3, total network volumes and billed business were both up over 30% year-over-year in the first quarter on an FX-adjusted basis, strengthening further from the strong growth rates seen in the past few quarters. And as Steve highlighted, intra-quarter, while omicron slowed growth in January and early February, we then saw a strong acceleration into March, with that month achieving our highest-ever level of monthly billed business. And I would point out that the majority of this high level of growth was driven by the momentum we have built and the number of transactions flowing through our network with only a modest impact from inflation. Now, as I've talked about at our investor day last month and as Slide 4 reiterates, the majority of our billed business is spending on goods and services from our consumer and small- and medium-sized enterprise customers. And as you can see on Slide 5, business service spending remained robust in the first quarter, with year-over-year growth reaching 21%, slightly above the 2021 exit rate. This momentum is from strong growth in online and card-not-present spending that continued in the first quarter even as offline spending growth strengthened, demonstrating the effect of the structural shift in online commerce that we've seen accelerated by the pandemic. And while T&E spending is a smaller portion of our total billings, you see on Slide 6 that it is now strongly supporting our growth momentum, with overall T&E spending growing 121% year-over-year. T&E spending did show a dip in January and early February due to the omicron variant, but spending then rebounded tremendously, reflecting pent-up travel demand and essentially reached 2019 levels for the first time since the start of the pandemic in the month of March. And this kind of T&E spending growth has continued right into early April. When you then break these spending trends down across our consumer and commercial businesses, as we begin to do on Slide 7, there are a few other key points I'd suggest you take fully. First, our millennial and Gen Z customers continue to drive our highest consumer growth, with their spending up 56% year over year and spending growth from all other age cohorts increasing as well in the quarter. Also, of note, global consumer T&E volumes overall were back above 2019 levels as of the first quarter, led by the growth in the U.S. Second, our commercial business' strategic focus on helping SME clients run their businesses continues to drive strong growth in overall SME spending, up 30% in the first quarter with acceleration in growth across both the U.S. and international. While a smaller part of our overall growth is in this segment, I would point out that our large and global corporate clients have begun to show signs of business travel recovery, especially in the latter part of the quarter with a year-over-year growth rate for the quarter of 42%. So, overall, we are pleased with the growth momentum we see across the board in our spending volumes, which is tracking in line with our expectations for both the year and for our long-term expectations. As you then move to receivable and loan balances on Slide 9, you see that our growth momentum has brought our ending loan balances roughly back to pre-pandemic levels in this quarter. As I said at investor day, the interest-bearing portion of our loan balances also continues to increase quarter over quarter but is still below 2019 levels, as paydown rates remain elevated due to the liquidity and strength among our customer base. This liquidity and strength is also, of course, evident as you turn to credit and provision on Slides 10 through 12, as we continue to see extremely strong credit performance. Card Member loans and receivables write-off and delinquency rates remain well below pre-pandemic levels and in line with our expectations, but they did tick up a bit this quarter. As you then turn to the accounting for this credit performance, you will see that this quarter, we released a large part of the remaining credit reserves we built to capture the significant uncertainty of the pandemic, which lacked a comparable precedent. As we have seen a sustained recovery from the pandemic-driven economic shutdowns, we have been able to reduce pandemic-driven reserves. While there clearly is still plenty of uncertainty today related to the current geopolitical and inflationary environment, we believe that our CECL models are better able to capture our expected credit risk related to these uncertainties to determine the appropriate level of reserves required. Our strong credit performance, combined with the adjustment to our reserves, drove a $33 million provision expense benefit for the first quarter as the low write-offs were fully offset by the net reserve release as shown on Slide 11. As you see on Slide 12, we ended the first quarter with $3.1 billion of reserves, representing 3.3% of our loan balances and 0.1% of our Card Member receivable balances, respectively. This is well below the reserve levels we had pre-pandemic, given the strong credit performance we've seen. Going forward, as loan balances, especially the interest-bearing portion of loan balances build more meaningfully, we expect delinquency and loss rates to continue to slowly move up over time but remain below pre-pandemic levels this year. We would also expect to end the year with a higher level of reserves on our balance sheet than where we ended this quarter, although there could be some quarterly volatility in reserve adjustments throughout the year. As we move to revenue on Slide 13, I do need to explain some changes we've made to our revenue reporting before moving on to results. As a reminder, we began reporting processed volumes in the first quarter of last year to better differentiate between volume and cards we issue versus those who where we play more of a network role. For added transparency, we now have moved all of the revenues associated with these volumes out of discount revenue, other fees and commissions, and other revenue and combined them into a newly created line called processed revenue, which you can then match up against our processed volumes. We have also consolidated the remaining balances from other fees and commissions and other revenue into one line named service fees and other revenue, with the largest components of this line item being service fees earned from merchants, like those generated by our loyalty coalition business; and foreign currency-related revenues, such as FX conversion fees. This revenue line was up strong with 42% growth year over year in the first quarter, as you will see on the next slide. This growth was primarily driven by the uptick we have seen in travel-related revenues. And as I said at investor day, we expect this to be a pandemic recovery tailwind throughout this year. You will see we have recast prior periods in the disclosures that accompany our earnings release. A description of these reporting changes and definitions for key terms will also be included in our Form 10-Q. With these changes out of the way, let's move to our actual revenue performance beginning on Slide 14. Total revenues were up 29% year over year in the first quarter with broad-based revenue growth across all lines. Our largest revenue line, discount revenue grew 38% year over year in Q1 on an FX adjusted basis, as you can see on Slide 15. This growth was driven by both our sustained growth in goods and services spending and continued recovery of T&E spending. Net card fee revenues were up 16% year over year in the first quarter on an FX-adjusted basis, with growth reaccelerating versus the 10% to 11% growth rate seen in 2021, as you can see on Slide 16. As I said at investor day, this growth is largely driven by bringing new accounts onto our fee-paying products as a result of the investments we've made in our premium value propositions and the continued attractiveness of those value propositions to both prospects and existing customers. This quarter, we acquired 3 million new cards with acquisitions of U.S. Consumer and U.S. Business Platinum Card Members reaching record-high, as Steve noted earlier, demonstrating great demand for our products, especially our premium fee-based products. Moving on to net interest income. On Slide 17, you will see that it surpassed 2019 levels for the first time this quarter, mainly driven by lower interest expense, in part due to our increased mix of deposits, which is generally our lowest cost funding source, particularly in today's rising rate environment. First quarter year over year net interest income growth of 20%, while very strong, remains slower than the growth in our lending AR, as revolving loan balances continue to rebuild. And so we expect net interest income to be a pandemic recovery tailwind to our revenue growth in 2022. To sum up, on revenues on Slide 18 we're tracking well against our expectations. And looking forward, we still expect to see revenue growth of 18% to 20% for the full year of 2022. So, all of the revenue momentum we just discussed was driven by the investments we've been making in marketing, value propositions, coverage, technology, and talent. And those investments show up across the expense lines you see on Slide 19. Starting with variable customer engagement expenses, the strong spending growth, and customer engagement that Steve discussed earlier is driving the growth in these expenses lines. In total, these costs came in at 41% of total revenues for the first quarter and are tracking in line with our expectations for variable customer engagement costs to right around 42% of total revenues for the full year. On the marketing line, we invested $1.2 billion in the first quarter, on track with our expectation to spend around $5 billion in 2022. We feel really good about the strong momentum of our new card acquisitions, as I talked about earlier, and, more importantly, about the revenues from those acquisitions, which is trending significantly higher than what we saw pre-pandemic. We continue to see great demand for our products across a wide range of attractive investment opportunities, even beyond those we are currently funding. Moving to the bottom of Slide 19, operating expenses were $3.1 billion in the first quarter, tracking with our expectation to spend a bit over $12 billion for the full year. While opex was up 26% year over year this quarter, it is important to note that we were growing over a benefit of $384 million in net mark-to-market gains in our Amex Ventures strategic investment portfolio from the first quarter of last year, including in the opex line. I would point out that, what I said earlier that inflation is having some modest positive impact on volumes, it is also putting some pressure on our operating expenses, but we'll have to wait to see how material any impact might be for the full year. In any event, I still expect to have far less growth in opex compared to revenues and see these costs as a key source of leverage. Turning next to capital, on Slide 20, we returned $1.9 billion of capital to our shareholders in the first quarter, including common stock repurchases of $1.5 billion and $394 million in common stock dividends, on the back of strong earnings generation. Our CET1 ratio was 10.4% at the end of the first quarter, within our target range of 10% to 11%. We plan to continue to return to shareholders the excess capital we generate while supporting our balance sheet growth. That brings me to our growth plan on Slide 21, and then we'll open up the call for your questions. For the full year 2022, we are reaffirming our guidance of having revenue growth of 18% to 20% and earnings share between $9.25 and $9.65. We continue to expect the amount of our volumes, revenues and core earnings to sequentially strengthen throughout the year, driven in part by our pandemic recovery tailwinds. As I mentioned earlier, there is clearly uncertainty as it relates to the current geopolitical and inflationary environment. As we sit here today, despite that uncertainty, the combination of our investments, successful execution of our strategy, and a number of structural shifts have all come together to deliver our strong first quarter results and build growth momentum. We remain committed to executing against our new growth plan and running the company with a focus on achieving our aspiration of delivering revenue growth in excess of 10% and mid-teens EPS growth on a sustainable basis in 2024 and beyond. With that, I'll turn the call back over to Vivian.Vivian Zhou -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, Jeff. Before we open up the lines for Q&A, I will ask those in the queue to please limit yourself to just one question. Thank you for your cooperation. And with that, the operator will now open up the line for questions. Alan? 