  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, welcome to the Cognizant Technology Solutions' fourth quarter 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn this conference over to Mr. Tyler Scott, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead, sir. You may begin.Tyler Scott -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. By now, you should have received a copy of the earnings release and investor supplement for the company's fourth quarter and full year 2021 results. If you have not, copies are available on our website, cognizant.com. The speakers we have on today's call are Brian Humphries, chief executive officer; and Jan Siegmund, chief financial officer. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that some of the comments made on today's call and some of the responses to your questions may contain forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to the risks and uncertainties as described in the company's earnings release and other filings with the SEC. Additionally, during our call today, we will reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe provide useful information for our investors. Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, where appropriate, to the corresponding gap measures, can be found on the company's earnings release and other filings with the SEC.With that, I'd now like to turn the call over to Brian Humphries. Please go ahead, Brian. Brian Humphries -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Tyler. Good afternoon, everybody. Throughout 2021, clients have meaningfully accelerated spend on digital transformation initiatives, accelerating the demand for IT services. Elevated attrition in key digital skills is, however, a direct consequence of this, creating revenue fulfillment challenges and cost pressure that needs to be carefully navigated. I'm, therefore, pleased that we had another quarter of solid execution, delivering against our commitments to clients and to you, our shareholders. Fourth quarter revenue was $4.8 billion, up 14.5% year over year in constant currency, above the high end of our guidance. Growth was led by digital, which grew 20% year over year. Fourth quarter adjusted operating margin was 15.3%, and full year adjusted operating margin was 15.4%, in line with our guidance. During the quarter, we also progressed against our key strategic initiatives, including scaling our digital capabilities, globalizing the company, helping our clients be successful by leading with greater industry insights and solutions, and repositioning the Cognizant brand. Turning now to industry segments, our recovery in financial services continued with fourth quarter growth of 19% year over year in constant currency. This includes an approximate 9-percentage-point benefit for the impact of the prior-year charge related to Samlink. As you know, we've been rebuilding our strength in financial services by refreshing our leadership in client-facing teams, strengthening our partner engagements, shifting our portfolio of services to more attractive market segments, and sharpening our focus on priority industry solutions and clients. We expect to build further on this progress in 2022. As we reposition Cognizant as a digital transformation provider in larger banking clients, we've complemented this with sustained momentum in regional banks. KeyBank, where we've just renewed our engagement as their primary digital partner, is a great example of this. We will further enable their digital transformation by digitizing their products to increase their digitally active customers to approximately 85%, by driving remote self-service growth by more than 40%, by automating front-to-back processes, and by migrating more than half of their application portfolio to the cloud. In insurance, we see continued demand for core modernization and digital transformation, including cloud and analytics. Unum, a global leader in disability insurance and group benefits, is partnering with us to pursue their digital transformation and focus on agent and customer experiences and associated analytics. These digital solutions enhance our existing application development and maintenance services relationship with Unum. And for our longtime client, Royal London, the U.K.'s largest mutual life, pensions, and investment firm, we're now extending our partnership to reimagine their customer engagement through personalized, seamless, connected customer journeys, enabled by cloud, data, and customer-centric principles. And healthcare revenue grew 8.2% year over year in constant currency. We've substantially increased our competitiveness in healthcare by investing in digital solutions, domain expertise and partnerships, and by modernizing our core platforms. We've seen continuing the momentum in our TriZetto product business, which grew 13% in 2021. We continue to add new footprints, and in 2021, increased the number of overall members supported by our platforms to approximately 210 million. We see solid commercial momentum across our healthcare payer and provider business. For instance, Humana, a large national payer, is modernizing and moving their legacy ecosystems to the cloud and has chosen Cognizant as a partner for agency, marketing, and clinical transformation. These initiatives will help improve Humana's customer and employee satisfaction, reduce cost, and enhance the delivery of integrated, personalized experiences to their members. We also have momentum with next-generation healthcare companies like Reliq Health Technologies, a rapidly growing global telemedicine firm, which turned to us to expand their care and management capabilities. Reliq will leverage Cognizant care management services to support the deployment of their care platform across managed care organizations, hospital networks, and health insurance providers. In life sciences, we partnered with AbbVie, a leading global biopharma company, to help advance their digital transformation in safety and risk management, which will improve patient care and outcomes through our digital health consulting services. Augmented by capabilities and human-centered design and digital product engineering, AbbVie can understand the needs of patients and care providers, design fit-for-purpose solutions that support the patient journey, and incorporate feedback for ongoing innovation. These improvements will help AbbVie better support patients and care providers across a broad range of therapeutic areas and products. Within products and resources, we continue to deliver excellent growth and client success across travel and hospitality and in manufacturing, logistics, energy, and utilities. Drawing on our extensive experience helping automakers streamline their operational tasks, Volvo Car chose us to help harmonize their finance and accounting and procurement processes and implement intelligent process automation to support their digital transformation. This is a great example of our growing momentum in digital business operations, which significantly outpace the BPO industry in 2021, and it's set to continue to gain share. Top-line growth has been fueled by momentum in intelligent process automation and strength in our digital native client portfolio. Our work at Grundfos, a global leader in water technology and the world's largest pump manufacturer, perfectly illustrates our growing digital credentials. Grundfos initially selected Cognizant to establish an IoT-based intelligent platform to gather real-time pump data from the sensors and perform analytics to prevent, predict, and respond to issues caused by leakages. Based on this success, we've since been selected to build a modern enterprise system based on SAP S/4HANA. Finally, in communications, media, and technology, we saw continued strength in technology in particular, where we sustained strong double-digit growth over the past three quarters. Turning now to bookings, which grew 22% year over year in the fourth quarter, our second consecutive quarter of 20%-plus growth. Full year 2021 bookings growth was in the mid-teens. We entered 2022 with a healthy book-to-bill ratio of 1.2. Throughout the year, our booking strength, which is being fueled by digital, has been broad-based across industries and geographies. Moving to the macro demand environment, industry demand remains robust, and I expect this to continue throughout 2022. Clients are embracing digital operating models to become more efficient, agile, automated, scalable, innovative, and indeed, secure, while also responding to the expectations of their customers and employees for hyper-personalized experiences. Continuing to scale our digital capabilities is at the heart of our company's strategy. Digital represented 45% of our revenue mix in Q4. As we noted during our recent investor briefing, we believe digital can become 55% to 60% of revenue in the coming years. Reflecting our strength in digital credentials, during the fourth quarter, we were named an industry leader in 17 new industry analyst reports. They highlighted the company's client partnerships, scalability, digital capabilities, and expertise as factors in recognizing our leadership. Tailoring digital is not only a driver of double-digit revenue growth and improved margins, it also fosters greater client intimacy and higher levels of employee engagement as we partner on strategic transformation projects that leverage advanced skills. Moving on now to an industry phenomenon you're accustomed to hearing about, the unprecedented competition for talent, reflective of the industrywide demand-supply imbalance in key digital skills. Fourth quarter voluntary attrition moderated a little, with 31% on an annualized basis, or 28% on a trailing 12-month basis. As a reminder, when we measure attrition, we count the entire company, including trainees and corporate, across IT services and BPO. We've been working aggressively to mitigate attrition levels while intensifying our efforts and focus on employee training, promotion cycles, professional development, and total rewards. During 2021, we also facilitated more than 14,000 job moves across 40 countries, continue to revitalize our campus recruitment program in India, establish new compensation measures and a revised promotion cycle to retain employees, and invested heavily in upskilling. In fact, our associates completed 23 million hours of learning and consumed 130,000 courses in 2021. Given that we compete on our knowledge and skills, we're proud to have won 42 awards for excellence in learning and development from the Brandon Hall Group, often considered the leading independent HCM research analyst firm. We more than offset elevated attrition levels in 2021 by accelerating our hiring, allowing us to increase company headcount by 14%. I'm pleased to say that in recent years, we've made meaningful progress in correcting our delivery pyramid by significantly increasing the number of college graduate hires onboarded in India. In 2021, we added a record 33,000 college graduate hires in India, up from 17,000 in 2020. In 2022, we plan to add approximately 50,000 in India. Digital acquisitions have also brought incredible talent to Cognizant. During 2021, we completed seven acquisitions that extend our digital leadership, the most recent being our fourth quarter acquisition of Devbridge. This software consultancy and product development firm expands our software product engineering capabilities and global delivery footprint by adding more than 600 engineers, designers, and product managers in Lithuania, Poland, the U.K., and North America. This expansion of our global delivery network complements recent announcements in the United Kingdom, Australia, and indeed, Canada. In closing, I'm proud of our execution against our strategy in 2021. We've reestablished commercial momentum and have a healthy book-to-bill ratio. Our delivery teams executed against our commitments despite challenging labor market conditions. Our performance in our two largest industries, financial services and healthcare, have strengthened. Growth in key international markets such as the U.K. has meaningfully accelerated. Our digital portfolio has been extended and has never been stronger. And we've made significant progress in our people strategy, our internal digitization agenda, and indeed, our brand repositioning. For several quarters now, I've been holding our long, open-ended virtual sessions with small groups of employees. What I've learned from these intimate sessions, as well as from our large virtual town hall meetings, is that employee pride in the company is building. Employees see not only how far we've come, but also a clear path to an exciting future. Employees also recognize the consistent execution of our strategy, our commercial momentum, and a commitment to our purpose, vision, and values. This purpose has kept us focused on executing our ESG agenda despite this risk of a prolonged COVID-19 pandemic. Our ESG-focused commitment is evident in our Cognizant Combats COVID-19 initiative in India, in our intensified efforts to drive a culture of belonging throughout Cognizant, in our $250 million philanthropic initiative to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion, along with health and well-being in communities around the world and in many other areas covered in our 2021 ESG report. In summary, our broad-based progress allows us to approach the new fiscal year with confidence in our ability to execute against the multiyear financial outlook we presented at the -- our November investor briefing. So, with that, I'll turn the call over to Jan, who will cover the details of the quarter and our financial outlook, before we take your questions.Jan Siegmund -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Brian, and good afternoon, everyone. We finished the year with solid momentum, driven by digital projects, and entered 2022 with bookings momentum and strong customer demand. For the full year, revenue was $18.5 billion, representing an increase of 11% or 10% in constant currency. This includes 320-basis-points contribution from all our acquisitions. The charge in Q4 2020 related to the proposed exit from the customer engagement of our Samlink subsidiary contributed 70 basis points of growth. I will refer to this as the Samlink impact for the remainder of my remarks. For the full year, digital revenue grew over 19% and represented approximately 44% of total revenue. Q4 revenue was $4.8 billion, representing an increase of 14% year over year or 14.5% in constant currency. Year-over-year growth includes 280 basis points of the Samlink impact and also 280 basis points of growth from our recent acquisitions. In Q4 year, digital revenue grew over 20% year over year and represented approximately 45% of total revenue. As Brian mentioned, we were pleased with our bookings performance in the quarter and for the full year. In Q4, we have begun providing trailing 12-month bookings, which can be found in the supplemental presentation posted on our Investor Relations website. We took the opportunity to enhance our bookings definition, modifying it to exclude overlap from early renewals and to include bookings from unintegrated acquired entities. As of Q4 2021, trailing 12-month bookings based on our revised definition were $23.1 billion, representing a book-to-bill of approximately 1.2. Moving on to segment results for the fourth quarter where all growth rates provided will be year over year and constant currency. Financial services revenue increased approximately 19%, which includes a positive 900 basis points of Samlink impact. During the quarter, we saw positive trends in our North American banking business, where revenue grew high-single digits, and internationally within insurance. Across banking and insurance, we are continuing to invest into our talent and digital capabilities while focusing on broadening our client base and driving improved profitable growth. In 2022, we expect our recovery to continue. Health care revenue increased approximately 8%, driven by double-digit organic growth in life sciences. Our healthcare payer and provider business grew in the mid-single digits, driven by our integrated software solutions. As we discussed during our investor briefing in November, we see a large and growing market opportunity in the healthcare space, and our capabilities across healthcare payer, provider, and life sciences provide us a unique industry perspective and client intimacy that we believe provides ample opportunity to support sustainable growth in the years ahead. Products and resources revenue momentum continued, with revenue increasing 18%, our third consecutive quarter of strong double-digit growth. Revenue was again driven by strong performance in manufacturing, logistics, energy, and utilities, which grew double digits for the seventh consecutive quarter and surpassed $2 billion in annual revenue in 2021. Retail and consumer goods and travel and hospitality also grew double digits year over year, with quarterly revenue now back above pre-pandemic levels. Revenue growth also included 550 basis points from our recent acquisitions. Communications, media, and technology revenue grew 13%, of which, approximately 300 basis points of growth was attributable to recent acquisitions. Organic growth was again led by our technology business where our work with digital native clients has continued to drive growth in our core portfolio. From a geographic perspective in Q4, North American revenue grew 9% year over year, driven by banking, life sciences, manufacturing, logistics, energy, and utilities, and technology. Growth in North America also included the benefit of recently completed acquisitions across segments. Revenue outside of North America grew approximately 33% year over year in constant currency, including 13 points of Samlink impact. Growth was led by the U.K. where we saw strong double-digit growth within financial services, products and resources, and communications, media, and technology segments. We also continue to experience strong growth in Australia and Germany, driven in part by our acquisitions of Servian and ESG Mobility, respectively. Now, moving on to margins. In Q4, our GAAP and adjusted operating margins were 15.3% since there were no non-GAAP charges in the quarter. On a year-over-year basis, adjusted operating margin improved by approximately 300 basis points, driven primarily by the Samlink charge in the prior-year period. As we discussed last quarter, merit increases for the majority of employees were effective October 1, which negatively impacted margin in the quarter. Supply chain constraints and our elevated attrition has kept subcontractor, recruiting, and other delivery costs elevated, while our recently completed acquisitions have also negatively impacted our margin. While we continue to invest in SG&A to drive and support organic revenue growth, we have also moderated nonstrategic spend, which has helped to partially offset the labor cost pressure. Our GAAP and adjusted tax rate in the quarter was 22%, below the low end of full year guidance range, benefiting from discrete items, which we do not expect to repeat in the future. Q4 diluted GAAP and adjusted EPS were both $1.10. Now, turning to the balance sheet. We ended the quarter with cash and short-term investments of $2.7 billion or net cash of $2.1 billion. Free cash flow in Q4 was $760 million, representing approximately 130% of net income. This resulted in a full year free cash flow of $2.2 billion and represented a cash flow conversion of over 100% of net income, which was in line with our prior guidance. DSO of 69 days declined by three days sequentially and by one day year over year. DSO will remain a key lever to support strong free cash flow conversion over the medium term. During the quarter, we repurchased 800,000 shares for $66 million on our share repurchase program and returned $127 million to shareholders through our regular dividend, and spend cash of 255 million on acquisitions. In 2021, we returned $1.3 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends and spend approximately $1 billion on acquisitions. This was consistent with our capital deployment framework introduced in Q4 2020 and reiterated at our investor -- in November investor briefing. In support of our capital deployment framework, today, we have also announced a 12% increase in our quarterly cash dividend, our third consecutive annual increase, and fourth since we initiated the dividend in 2017. We also expect to return at least $500 million through share repurchases in 2022, subject to market conditions and other factors. Turning to guidance. For Q1, we expect revenue in the range of $4.8 billion to $4.84 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 9% to 10% or 10.2% to 11.2% in constant currency. Our guidance assumes currency will have a negative 120-basis-points impact and an inorganic contribution of approximately 200 basis points. For the full year, we expect revenue growth to be toward the high end of our medium-term financial framework, which is consistent with our expectations at the November 2021 investor briefing. We expect full year revenue of $20 billion to $20.5 billion, representing 7.8% to eight-point -- I apologize, representing 7.8% to 10.8% growth or 8.5% to 11.5% in constant currency. Our outlook assumes currency will have a negative 70-basis-points impact and includes 200-basis-points contribution from inorganic revenue. This inorganic assumption includes approximately 100 basis points from future acquisitions. Full year guidance also includes the negative impact from the sale of our Samlink subsidiary, which was completed on February 1. Moving on to adjusted operating margin. Consistent with our outlook at the November 2021 investor briefing, we expect 2022 to be toward the lower end of our medium-term financial framework. For 2022, our full year adjusted operating margin guidance of 15.6% to 15.7% assumes approximately 25 basis points of expansion at the midpoint from 2021. While we are not providing quarterly margin guidance, we expect typical seasonality in 2022, which includes stronger margin performance in Q2 and Q3, while Q1 and Q4 are expected to be below our full year guidance. In Q1, we expect some modest sequential pressure, driven by compensation costs and seasonal factors. Our outlook for margin assumes the industry supply side constraints continue and that attrition remains elevated in 2022. In response, we will continue to invest into our talent, including through merit increases, promotions, career development opportunities, and training. This will include hiring of approximately 50,000 recent college graduates, targeted lateral hires, and the continued use of subcontractors. Similar to 2021, we will continue to moderate nonstrategic SG&A spend to help offset some of this pressure in the near term. This leads to our full year adjusted EPS guidance, which is $4.46 to $4.60. Our full year outlook assumes interest income of $25 million. Our outlook also assumes average shares outstanding of approximately 522 million and a tax rate of 25% to 26%. Finally, we expect free cash flow will represent approximately 100% of net income for the full year. With that, we will open the call for your questions. 