  OperatorWelcome, and thank you for joining the Wells Fargo first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note that today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to John Campbell, director of investor relations. Sir, you may begin the conference.John Campbell -- Director of Investor Relations Thanks, Brad. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today where our CEO, Charlie Scharf; and our CFO, Mike Santomassimo, will discuss first quarter results and answer your questions. This call is being recorded.

 



 Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our first quarter earnings materials, including the release, financial supplement, and presentation deck are available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings materials. Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings and the earnings materials available on our website.I will now turn the call over to Charlie. Charlie Scharf -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. I'll make some brief comments about our first quarter results, the operating environment, and update you on our priorities. I'll then turn the call over to Mike to review the first quarter results in more detail before we take your questions. Let me start off with some first quarter highlights.

 



 We earned $3.7 billion or $0.88 per common share in the first quarter. Our results included $0.21 per share impact from a decrease in the allowance for credit losses. We have broad-based loan growth with both our consumer and commercial portfolios growing from the fourth quarter. While net interest income was down modestly from the fourth quarter, driven by fewer days in the quarter, it grew 5% from a year ago. Higher interest rates, along with our expectations for continued loan growth should drive higher net interest income growth that we anticipated at the beginning of the year. Mike will provide more details regarding our current view later on in the call. However, the increase in rates negatively impacted our mortgage banking business. The mortgage origination market experienced one of its largest quarterly declines that I can remember and it will take time for the industry to reduce excess capacity. Credit performance remained incredibly strong, and our net charge-off ratio declined to 14 basis points. While we have minimal direct exposure to Russia or Ukraine, we're monitoring certain industries that have the potential to be impacted by the conflict and economic sanctions, but thus far don't have concerns. In addition, we returned a significant amount of capital to our shareholders in the first quarter, including repurchasing $6 billion of common stock and increasing our common stock dividend to $0.25 per share. The significant changes we've made across the company have put us in a position to increase the dividend and our work continues. The health of our consumer and businesses so far has remained strong, though we're entering a period of uncertainty. March was the eighth straight month in which inflation outpaced income with lower-income consumers being most impacted by rising energy and food prices. That said, higher deposit balances and rising wages have thus far allowed consumers to weather these headwinds. We continued to see median deposit balances above pre-pandemic levels, up approximately 25% compared to 2020 but down from the highs observed in 2021.

 



 Consumer credit card spend remained strong, up 33% from a year ago. All spending categories were up with the highest growth in travel, entertainment, fuel, and dining. After strong growth in the first quarter of 2021, driven by stimulus payments, debit card spending increased 6% in the first quarter of 2022. Discretionary spending remained strong with entertainment up 39% and travel up 29% from a year ago. The increase in energy prices was reflected in a 27% increase in fuel spending. Loan demand from our commercial customers increased with growth in both commitments and loans outstanding as customers' borrowing needs are increasing to fund working capital expansion. Credit quality remained strong with net recoveries in our commercial portfolio. Now let me update you on progress we've made on our strategic priorities. Building an appropriate risk and control infrastructure remains our top priority, and I continue to believe that we're making significant progress. Early in the first quarter, we named Derek Flowers, our new chief risk officer, following Mandy Norton's retirement announcement. Derek has extensive experience managing risk including the work he's done over the last several years of managing the build-out of Wells Fargo's risk and control framework. Derek has been with Wells Fargo for over 20 years and his familiarity with the company and its risk background make him the ideal candidate to succeed Mandy, who I'd like to thank for the tremendous progress she made in transforming the risk organization. We also continue to make progress in resolving legacy regulatory issues with news in January that the OCC had terminated a consent order regarding add-on products that the company sold to retail banking customers before 2015. We have much more work to do to satisfy our regulatory requirements, and we will likely have setbacks, but I'm confident in our ability to continue to close the remaining gaps over the next several years. We remain focused on improving our financial performance while investing to drive growth across our businesses. Providing our customers with simple, easy-to-use, and fast digital experiences is one of our most important strategic priorities. In the first quarter, we began rolling out our new mobile banking experience for our customers in our consumer businesses, and feedback has been very positive. Digital adoption, which is critical to both delivering seamless digital experiences that our customers expect and reducing the cost to serve has continued to increase with mobile active customers up 4% from a year ago. We added approximately 500,000 new mobile active customers in the first quarter alone. We continue to invest to improve our digital capabilities with additional enhancements planned for this year. We're also focused on reducing friction and moving money. We've continued to invest in Zelle and made changes to expand customer usage, including increasing sending limits. These changes have helped to drive 21% growth in active send customers and a 33% increase in send volume from a year ago. We continued to enhance our credit card offerings with our partnership with Bilt Rewards and MasterCard. This first-of-its-kind co-brand card allows members to pay rent and earn points with no transaction fees on rent payments at any apartment in the U.S. In the first quarter, we selected nCino to streamline our origination, underwriting, and portfolio management for our small business customers. This collaboration is expected to provide our customers with a more streamlined lending experience and builds on our existing relationship that we announced last year to accelerate our digital transformation within our commercial banking and corporate investment banking businesses. Let me just make some summary comments before I turn it over to Mike. As we sit here today, our internal indicators continue to point toward the strength of our customers' financial position but the Federal Reserve has made it clear that it will take actions necessary to reduce inflation and this will certainly reduce economic growth. In addition, the war in Ukraine adds additional risk to the downside. Wells Fargo is positioned well to provide support for our clients in a slowing economy. While we will likely see an increase in credit losses from historical lows, we should be a net beneficiary as we will also benefit from rising rates. We have a strong capital position and our lower expense base creates greater margins from which to invest. We remain diligent in extending credit and are focusing on managing the other risk types within the company as well. We remain on target to achieve a sustainable 10% ROTCE subject to the same assumptions we've discussed in the past on a run rate basis at some point this year. We continue to focus on a broad set of stakeholders in our decisions and actions. As we have all seen, the reports and images coming out of Ukraine are deeply concerning. In order to support those most impacted, we announced $1 million in donations across three nonprofits in support of humanitarian aid for Ukraine and Ukrainian refugees as well as services that support the U.S. military. Earlier this week, we also announced plans to introduce HOPE Inside centers in select branches to increase access to financial education and guidance. Working with Operation HOPE is one important way that we can remove barriers to financial inclusion as part of our banking inclusion initiative, which is focused on helping more people who are unbanked gain access to affordable mainstream banking products. Since the pandemic began, close to 100,000 of our employees never left the workplace. And last month, we started to welcome the rest back to the office. It's been great to be back together again, and I want to thank all of our employees as they work together to better serve our customers, our communities, and each other. I will now turn the call over to Mike.Mike Santomassimo -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Charlie, and good morning, everyone. Net income for the quarter was $3.7 billion or $0.88 per common share, and our results included a $1.1 billion decrease in the allowance for credit losses, predominantly due to reduced uncertainty around the economic impact of COVID on our loan portfolios. Our effective income tax rate in the first quarter was approximately 16%, which included net discrete income tax benefits due to stock-based compensation. We expect our effective income tax rate for the full year to be approximately 18%, excluding any additional discrete items. Our CET1 ratio declined to 10.5%, still well above our regulatory minimum of 9.1%. We highlight capital on Slide 3. The decrease in our CET1 ratio from the fourth quarter reflected a $5.1 billion reduction in cumulative other comprehensive income, driven by higher interest rates and wider agency MBS spreads, which reduced the ratio by approximately 40 basis points. Higher risk-weighted assets driven by growth in loan balances and commitments. We adopted the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk, which had a minimal impact on total risk-weighted assets, and we continued with our strong capital returns. We repurchased $6 billion of common stock in the first quarter, bringing our total repurchases since the third quarter of 2021 to $18.3 billion, which is in line with our 2021 capital plan. While we have flexibility under the stress capital buffer framework to exceed the share repurchases contemplated in our capital plan, we will be disciplined in our approach, given the current rate volatility and currently expect to have significantly lower levels of share buybacks in the second quarter. Finally, we've submitted our 2022 capital plan. And as I've called out before, it's possible that our stress capital buffer could increase when the Federal Reserve publishes our official stress capital buffer in the third quarter, while our GSIB surcharge of 1.5% will remain the same for 2023. Turning to credit quality on Slide 5. Our net loan charge-off ratio declined to 14 basis points in the first quarter. Commercial credit performance was strong again with $29 million of net recoveries in the first quarter driven by recoveries in energy, asset-based lending and middle market. Consumer credit performance was also strong. Credit losses were down $59 million from the fourth quarter, which included $152 million of net charge-offs related to a change in practice to fully charge off certain delinquent legacy residential mortgage loans. The first quarter included higher auto losses and seasonally higher credit card losses. Nonperforming assets decreased $323 million or 4% from the fourth quarter. Commercial nonaccruals were down $423 million, declining again this quarter and are now below pre-pandemic levels. Consumer nonaccruals increased $82 million driven by an increase in residential mortgage nonaccruals and primarily resulting from certain customers exiting COVID-related accommodation programs. Overall, early performance of loans that have exited forbearance have exceeded our expectations. Our allowance for credit losses at the end of the first quarter reflected continued strong credit performance, less uncertainty around the economic impact of COVID, the economic recovery thus far and an outlook that reflects the increasing risks from high inflation in the Russian-Ukraine conflict. On Slide 6, we highlight loans and deposits. Average loans grew 3% from a year ago in the fourth quarter. Period-end loans grew for the third consecutive quarter and were up 6% from a year ago, with growth in both our commercial and consumer portfolios. I'll highlight the specific growth drivers when discussing business segment results. Average deposits increased $70.6 billion or 5% from a year ago, with growth in our consumer businesses and commercial banking, partially offset by continued declines in corporate and investment banking and corporate treasury reflecting targeted actions to manage under the asset cap. Turning to net interest income on Slide 7. First quarter net interest income increased $413 million or 5% from a year ago and declined $41 million from the fourth quarter. The decline from the fourth quarter was driven by $178 million of lower income from EPBO and paycheck protection program loans as well as two fewer days in the quarter, which offset the impact of higher earning asset yields and higher securities and loan balances. Last quarter, we highlighted that net interest income for full year 2022 could potentially increase by approximately 8% driven by loan growth and other balance sheet mix changes as well as the benefit from rising rates, which was based on the forward curve at that time. Obviously, a lot has changed over the past three months. Loan growth has been solid and average loan balances were up 3% versus the fourth quarter and 2% at period end. If we continue to see increased demand, it's possible that average loan balances will be up in the mid-single digits from the fourth quarter 2021 to fourth quarter 2022, up from our prior outlook earlier this year of low to mid-single digits. The rate increase is currently included in the forward rate curve would also drive stronger net interest income growth than we anticipated earlier in the year. However, it's important to note that the benefit from rising rates is not linear, and we would expect deposit betas to accelerate after the initial rate hikes and customer migration from lower-yielding to higher-yielding deposit products would also likely increase. Higher rates will also have a negative impact on mortgage volumes and potentially on market-related fees in corporate and investment banking, private equity and venture capital businesses and in wealth management. Given our current expectations for higher loan growth and recent forward rate curves, net interest income for full year 2022 could be up mid-teens on a percentage basis from 2021. That said, net interest income growth will ultimately be driven by a variety of factors, including the magnitude and timing of Fed rate increases, deposit betas, and loan growth. Now turning to expenses on Slide 8. Noninterest expense declined 1% from a year ago. We continue to make progress on our efficiency initiatives and expenses also declined due to divestitures last year. The first quarter included approximately $600 million of seasonally higher personnel expenses, including payroll taxes, restricted stock expense for retirement-eligible employees, and 401k matching contributions. We also had $673 million of operating losses, which were primarily driven by higher customer remediation expense predominantly for a variety of historical matters. Our full year 2022 expenses are still expected to be approximately $51.5 billion. However, as we experienced this quarter, operating losses can be episodic and hard to predict, and we will continue to update you on our expense expectations throughout the year. Turning to our operating segments, starting with consumer banking and lending on Slide 9. Consumer and small business banking revenue increased 11% from a year ago, primarily due to higher deposit balances, higher deposit-related fees, primarily reflecting lower fee waivers and an increase in debit card transactions. We continue to reduce the underlying cost to run the business and serve customers. Customers have continued to migrate to digital channels and correspondingly teller transactions are down 45% from pre-pandemic levels. Over the same period, we've decreased our number of branches by 12% and branch staffing by approximately 30%, and we have more opportunities to improve our efficiency while we continue to make enhancements to better serve customers. Earlier this year, we announced changes we are making to help our customers avoid overdraft fees. We began to implement some of these new policies and we'll be rolling out the rest of the changes this year. We eliminated fees for nonsufficient funds and overdraft protection transactions in early March. So these changes didn't have a meaningful impact on the first quarter results. We still expect the annual decline in these fees to be approximately $700 million. However, as we highlighted last quarter, this is an annualized estimate and the reduction may be partially offset by higher levels of activity, and we will observe how customers respond to the new features that will be introduced in the latter part of the year. Home lending revenue declined 33% from a year ago and 19% from the fourth quarter, driven by lower mortgage originations and press margins given the higher rate environment and competitive pricing in response to excess capacity in the industry. Mortgage rates increased 156 basis points in the first quarter and are above rate levels observed for the most of the last -- for most of the last decade. Reflecting this environment, we expect second quarter originations and margins to remain under pressure and mortgage banking revenue to continue to decline. We've started to reduce expenses in response to the decline in volume and expect expenses will continue to decline throughout the year as excess capacity is removed and aligned to lower business activity. Credit card revenue was up 6% from a year ago, driven by higher loan balances and point-of-sale volumes. Auto revenue increased 10% and personal lending was up 2% from a year ago, primarily due to higher loan balances. Turning to some key business drivers on Slide 10. Our mortgage originations declined 21% from the fourth quarter. We believe the mortgage market experienced its largest quarterly decline since 2003, primarily due to lower refinance activity in response to higher mortgage rates. Home lending loan balances grew modestly from the fourth quarter, driven by the third consecutive quarter of growth in our nonconforming portfolio, which more than offset declines in loans purchased from securitization pools or EPBOs. Turning to auto. Origination volume increased 4% from a year ago, but was down 22% from fourth quarter due to credit tightening in higher-risk segments and increased price competition as interest rates rose, and we targeted solid returns for new originations. Turning to debit card. Transactions declined 7% from the fourth quarter due to seasonality and were up 3% from a year ago with double-digit growth in travel and entertainment. Credit card point-of-sale purchase volume continued to be strong, it was up 33% from a year ago, but down 5% from the fourth quarter due to seasonality. While payment rates remain elevated, balances grew 14% from a year ago due to strong purchase volume and the launch of new products. New credit card accounts increased over 80% from a year ago, and we continue to be pleased by the quality of the accounts we're attracting. Turning to commercial banking results on Slide 11. Middle market banking revenue increased 8% from a year ago, driven by higher deposit and loan balances as well as the impact of higher interest rates. Asset-based lending and leasing revenue increased 17% from a year ago, driven by higher loan balances, stronger net gains from equity securities, and higher revenue from renewable energy investments. Noninterest expense declined 6% from a year ago, primarily driven by lower personnel and occupancy expense due to efficiency initiatives and lower lease expense. After declining during the first half of last year, average loan balances have grown for three consecutive quarters and were up 6% from a year ago. Revolver utilization rates have increased but are still well below historical levels. Loan demand has been driven by larger clients who are increasing borrowing due to the impact of inflation on material and transportation costs as well as to support inventory growth. We're also seeing new demand from some clients who are catching up from underinvestment in projects and capital expenditures over the past couple of years. Turning to corporate and investment banking on Slide 12. Banking revenue increased 4% from a year ago, primarily driven by higher loan balances and improved treasury management results. Average loan balances were up 18% from a year ago with increased demand across most industries driven primarily by capital expenditures and growing working capital needs. Commercial real estate revenue grew 9% from a year ago, driven by the higher loan balances and higher revenue in our low-income housing business. Average loan balances were up 17% from a year ago, and originations in the first quarter outpaced volumes from a year ago and loan pipelines continue to be strong. Markets revenue was down 18% from a year ago, primarily due to lower trading activity in residential mortgage-backed securities and high-yield products. Average deposits in corporate investment banking were down $25.3 billion or 13% from a year ago, driven by continued actions to manage into the asset cap. On Slide 13, wealth and investment management revenue grew 6% from a year ago, driven by higher asset-based fees on higher market valuations and higher net interest income from the impact of higher interest rates as well as higher deposit and loan balances. As a reminder, the majority of WIM advisory assets are priced at the beginning of the quarter. So first quarter results reflected market valuations as of Jan 1st, and second quarter results will reflect the lower market valuations as of April 1st. The 5% increase in expenses from a year ago was primarily driven by higher revenue-related compensation, which was more than offset by higher revenue. Average deposits were up 7% from a year ago and average loans increased 5% from a year ago, driven by continued momentum in securities-based lending. Slide 14 highlights our corporate results, both revenue and expenses declined from a year ago, driven by the sale of our student loan portfolio and divestitures of our Corporate Trust Services business and Wells Fargo Asset Management. These businesses contributed $791 million of revenue in the first quarter of 2021, including the gain on sale of our student loan portfolio and they accounted for approximately $400 million of the decline in expenses compared with a year ago, including the goodwill write-down on the sale of our student loan portfolio. We will now take your questions. 