
OperatorGood morning and welcome to the ADM Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on a listen-only mode to prevent background noise. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.I would now like to introduce your host for today's call Vikram Luthar, Senior Vice President, Head of Investor Relations, Chief Financial Officer, Nutrition for ADM. Mr. Luthar, you may begin.Vikram Luthar -- Senior Vice President, Head of Investor Relations & Chief Financial Officer of Nutrition BusinessThank you, Shelby. Good morning and welcome to ADM's second quarter earnings webcast. Starting tomorrow, a replay of today's webcast will be available at adm.com. For those following the presentation, please turn to slide two, the company's Safe Harbor Statement, which says that some of our comments and materials constitute forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views and estimates of future economic circumstances, industry conditions, company performance and financial results. These statements and materials are based on many assumptions and factors that are subject to risks and uncertainties.ADM has provided additional information in its reports on file with the SEC concerning assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in this presentation, and you should carefully review the assumptions and factors in our SEC reports. To the extent permitted under applicable law, ADM assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events.On today's webcast, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Juan Luciano, will provide an overview of the quarter and highlight some of our accomplishments. Our Chief Financial Officer, Ray Young, will review the drivers of our performance, as well as corporate results and financial highlights. Then Juan will make some final comments, after which they will take your questions. Please turn to slide three.I will now turn the call over to Juan.Juan Luciano -- Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Vikram. I'm pleased to share with you results that continue to demonstrate our success in delivering strong and sustained earnings growth. This morning, we reported record second quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.33. Adjusted segment operating profit was $1.2 billion, up 44% versus the second quarter of 2020.Our trailing fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was about $4.5 billion, almost $900 million more than a year ago. And I'm proud to report that our trailing fourth quarter average adjusted ROIC was 9.7%, which is both significantly higher than the 8.1% of the prior year period and also represents the achievement of our 10% objective. I'm proud of the entire ADM team for their great results this quarter. We're living up to our promises and our purpose. And the continuing execution of our strategy is delivering impressive ongoing growth for our company, our customers and our shareholders. I'd like to take a moment to highlight some of our accomplishments from the quarter. Slide 4, please.Over the last decade, we made cultural, technology and process changes that help us revolutionize how we do our work every day. We started with operational excellence, added to that performance excellence and expanded into readiness, which encompassed a broader array of specific actions within our control to drive value creation, including profitable growth.Now, as we enter the next phase of our strategic transformation, the concept of readiness will continue to be embedded in everything we do, but we will categorize our efforts going forward as either productivity or innovation. Productivity is about using new technologies and thinking to automate, digitize and standardize our processes. It's a lever under our control that allows us to enhance efficiencies and manage costs. One great example of our productivity work is the digitalization of our procurement center of excellence. We're implementing best-in-breed technology that's standardizing processes and reducing costs in our indirect procurement. Most importantly, this advancement is unleashing our colleagues to drive even greater value by transforming their work from tactical to strategic. That's just one example of the kind of initiatives, we're pursuing under productivity. Across the enterprise, our productivity efforts collectively are expected to deliver about $200 million in savings in calendar year 2021.Please turn to slide 5. The other pillar of our strategy is innovation. Innovation is how we are delivering profitable growth. And one of the key ways we will support and propel our innovation work is through an initiative we launched this year called IFD. IFD is a fundamental realignment of our Human Nutrition business commercial organization and go-to-market approach, from a product-driven focus to a more customer-centric, market segment-driven structure, focused on three global market segments, global foods, global beverages, global health and wellness. We are now able to move from consumer insight to concept to prototype to final solution more efficiently than before. Already, IFD is enabling us to expand our sales pipelines and register record win rates. And this is only the start. IFD is a broad and ambitious effort, encompassing talent development, digital analytic and sales-enabling tools and streamlined product development processes, all designed to better match our vast pantry and technical development capabilities to our customers' needs and accelerate our speed to market.Slide 6, please. All of our strategic work is being supported and strengthened by our unique opportunity to use ADM's integrated value chain to advance the decarbonization of our industry. For example, late last year, our Decatur-based carbon capture and storage partnership, the world's first large-scale project to store carbon from a biofuel source, surpassed three million metric tons of carbon dioxide safely and permanently stored more than a mile under the Earth's surface. That's the equivalent of removing about 650,000 cars from the road for a full year. And our efforts are continuing. We expect to sequester an additional 2.5 million tons -- million metric tons every -- over the next five years and we have the ability to do even more. This project is a game changer, a valuable and unique asset in our efforts to decarbonize our production footprint and reduce the carbon intensity of our products, as demonstrated by our intention to work with eight Rivers to help build an innovative zero-emission power plant that will utilize this carbon capture capability.Next slide, please. Our reorganization efforts span the entire ag value chain, including transportation. Plant-based liquid fuels will continue to play a growing role in transportation, both on the ground and in the air and we are investing to ensure we can meet that expanding demand. In the second quarter, we were proud to announce the construction of North Dakota's first-ever dedicated soybean processing complex. We expect our new Spiritwood facility 600 million pounds of annual oil production, to help support fast expanding production of renewable green diesel. We've already broken ground on the North Dakota complex and we plan for it to be operational in 2023, in time to meet growing demand. We expect the demand for US green diesel to continue securing higher rate of growth, increasing by about one billion gallons per year, and reaching up to five billion gallons by 2025. Vegetable oils will be a key feedstock to meet that growing demand. And when you consider that it takes about 7.5 pounds of soybean oil to produce one gallon of renewable green diesel, you can appreciate the large potential opportunity and why we are investing to grow our participation both in North Dakota and with our expanded oil refining capacity in Quincy, Illinois.Slide 8, please. Another area in which our on-farm storage capabilities are helping us meet demand for more sustainable products is plant-based proteins. We made substantial investments in this space from our Campo Grande soy protein complex to our pea protein facility in North Dakota to our PlantPlus Foods joint venture. And as the opportunity for plant-based proteins accelerates by 12% a year, we are investing further to expand our participation. Yesterday, we announced an agreement to purchase Sojaprotein, Southern Europe's largest producer of soy-based protein products. Sojaprotein is a perfect fit for our growth strategy. It represents a strategic addition to our global protein production capacity. It is a successful growing company with 2020 sales of more than $100 million and an extensive list of customers in 65 countries in the meat alternative, confectionery, protein bar, pharmaceutical, pet food, and animal feed segments. And it's locally sourced. Exclusively non-GMO products are closely aligned with European consumer preferences.When I look back on these accomplishments, I see our ongoing strategic transformation is delivering at an accelerated pace. Our productivity and innovation focuses are powering performance and growth in large and fast-growing market opportunities, particularly those being propelled by strong consumer sentiment around sustainability. That's painting a bright future for ADM, which I will talk more about at the end of this call. But first, I'll turn it over to Ray to talk about our business performance.Ray?Ray Young -- Chief Financial OfficerYes. Thanks Juan and good morning everyone. Move to slide nine please. The Ag Services and Oilseeds team followed up on their exceptional first quarter with another outstanding quarter. Ag Services results were higher year-over-year. The North American origination business delivered an outstanding second quarter, managing its positions effectively in a dynamic pricing environment and also achieved significantly higher export volumes, driven by corn sales to China. South American origination was significantly lower than the previous year's quarter driven by slower farmer selling and high commodity prices, which impacted contract fulfillment.Global trade performance was lower than the second -- strong second quarter of 2020 when customers were building inventories in mid-COVID-19. Results were also impacted by timing impacts that should reverse. Crushing had substantially higher year-over-year results. The business executed well in an environment of strong vegetable oil demand to deliver higher execution margins in North America soy and EU softseeds. Results were partially offset by weaker soybean crush margins in South America, driven by lower demand for biodiesel. In addition there were about $70 million in net incremental negative timing effects which should reverse in the coming quarters. Refined products and other results were significantly higher than the prior year period, driven by continued recovery in foodservice as well as positive timing effects in North America, partially offset by the effects of the reduction in the Brazilian biodiesel mandates. Equity earnings from Wilmar were higher year-over-year.Now, looking ahead, we expect Q3 performance for Ag Services and Oilseeds to be higher than the third quarter of 2020, driven by stronger results in crushing. We continue to anticipate full year results that will be significantly higher than 2020's very strong performance.Slide 10, please. The Carbohydrate Solutions team did a great job delivering results that were almost double those of the prior year period. Starches and Sweeteners, including ethanol production from our wet mills, delivered substantially higher year-over-year results in a highly dynamic pricing environment, driven by about $90 million in positioning gains across the ethanol complex, as well as more normalized results from corn oil. Sweetener volumes were higher reflecting the beginnings of a recovery in demand from the foodservice channel. Ethanol margins improved versus the prior year period driven by a resurgence in driving miles in the United States. Vantage corn processor results were much higher than the second quarter of 2020 supported by the resumption of production of our two dry mills, improved fuel ethanol margins and favorable performance in USP-grade industrial alcohol from our Peoria complex. Now looking ahead, we expect tightening corn markets and their effects on ethanol margins to result in a third quarter for Carbohydrates Solutions that is lower compared to the third quarter of 2020, which included strong risk management gains. However, we expect full year Carbohydrate Solutions results to be substantially higher than 2020.Slide 11, please. Nutrition delivered record sales and profits with 15% year-over-year revenue growth on a constant currency basis and operating profit of more than $200 million. In Human Nutrition, revenue was 13% higher than the second quarter of last year on a constant currency basis and operating profits were up 24%. In North America and EMEA, the flavors business delivered strong volumes and improved product mix, particularly in the beverage segment. Specialty Ingredients delivered strong sales growth in specialty proteins, though results were lower due to certain onetime costs, mainly in texturants. In Health & Wellness, stronger sales and margins in probiotics were offset by higher cost in fibers due to planned facility downtime.Animal Nutrition revenue growth was 17% higher year-over-year on a constant currency basis and profits were up 44% as improved demand and margins in amino acids, strength in feed additives and ingredients and better performance in EMEA more than offset COVID-19 and labor-related impacts in other regions. Now looking ahead, we expect Nutrition once again to deliver higher year-over-year results in the third quarter. And with continued strong demand, product innovation and great go-to-market execution by the team, we are raising our expectations for full year profit growth to 20%.Slide 12, please. So, let me finish up with a few observations from the other segment as well as some of the corporate line items. Other business results were substantially lower than the prior year period, driven primarily by captive insurance underwriting losses, most of which were offset by corresponding recoveries in the other business segments. As expected, net interest expense for the quarter decreased year-over-year on lower interest rates and the favorable liability management actions taken in the prior year. In the corporate lines, unallocated corporate costs of $248 million were driven primarily by higher performance-related compensation accruals, higher IT offering and project-related costs and transfers of costs from the business segments into the centralized centers of excellence in supply chain and operations. In other corporate, results included a valuation gain in our ADM Ventures portfolio. Looking at total corporate costs including net interest, corporate unallocated and other corporate, we are still on track for the calendar year to be overall similar to 2020.The effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2020 was approximately 14%. We still anticipate our calendar year effective tax rate to be in a range of 14% to 16%. Our balance sheet remains solid despite a higher commodity price environment with a net debt-to-total capital ratio of about 29% and available liquidity of almost $9.5 billion.With that, I'll turn it back to Juan.Juan Luciano -- Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Ray. Slide 13 please. When I look back on our outstanding first half results following a record 2020, I see a team that is executing at a high level and a strategy that is delivering according to our plan. We have been constantly refreshing our portfolio, divesting from non-strategic businesses and redeploying capital consistent with our strategy. In doing so, we've built industry-leading capabilities to meet customer and consumer needs in high-growth categories such as meat alternatives, a category we expect to reach more than $100 billion in sales worldwide by 2030 and in which our PlantPlus Foods joint venture, now is participating, selling consumer products across Brazil and ready in its North American launch. Another example is dietary supplements, a segment on track to have $80 billion in sales globally by 2025; and in which we're constantly expanding our product portfolio including our recently introduced Bio-Kult Brighten, which includes ingredients to reduce tiredness and fatigue.And then there is pet food, which is forecast to grow to more than $130 billion globally by 2025 and an area in which we launched our new premium cat food in Mexico, earlier this year. The list goes on. Renewable green diesel, pharmaceuticals and personal care, beverages all large high-growth opportunities powered by macro consumer trends like sustainability and health and wellbeing. And in each of those segments and more, our unparalleled global footprint, fully integrated value chain, customer insight, broad portfolio and speed to market are setting us ahead of the competition and fueling our growth. That's why, we are so optimistic about our path forward. Of course, there are always going to be short-term factors for us to navigate. But those are not things that will impact our long-term success.Our confidence is rooted in the transformation we began a decade ago and which continues with our work in productivity and innovation, as well as our expanding participation in large and fast-growing market opportunities. So to conclude, we have a great start of the year and we expect to continue our momentum, in the second half to deliver very strong 2021 earnings. As we've discussed, we are moving to a new phase of our strategic growth plan. With what we have accomplished over the years on capital discipline targeted cost reductions and cash generation and moving through our portfolio transformation and our efforts to optimize business performance, drive efficiencies and expand strategically. I believe we have successfully increased our base earnings power from $3 a share back in 2015 to a range of $4 to $4.50 this year.And now, as we enter the next stage of our growth leveraging the key macro trends of food security health and well-being and sustainability with our continued focus on productivity and innovation and with future targeted investments, we believe our medium-term,annual earnings trend growth rate will be in the high single-digit percentages from these $4 to $4.50 per share baseline.With that, operator please open the line for questions.