  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to AT&T's second-quarter 2021 earnings call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would like to turn the conference call over to your host, Amir Rozwadowski, senior vice president, finance and investor relations. Please go ahead.Amir Rozwadowski -- Senior Vice President, Finance, and Investor Relations Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our second-quarter call. I'm Amir Rozwadowski, head of investor relations for AT&T. Joining me on the call today are John Stankey, our CEO; and Pascal Desroches, our CFO. Also joining us for the Q&A portion of our call are Jeff McElfresh, the CEO of our communications group; and Jason Kilar, CEO for WarnerMedia. Before we begin, I need to call your attention to our safe harbor statement. It says that some of our comments today may be forward-looking. As such, they're subject to risks and uncertainties described in AT&T's SEC filings.Results may differ materially. Additional information is available on the investor relations website. And as always, our earnings materials are on our website. I also want to remind you that we are in the quiet period for the FCC Spectrum Auction 110. So unfortunately, we can't answer your questions about that today. With that, I'll turn the call over to John Stankey. John? John Stankey -- Chief Executive Officer Good morning, everyone, and thanks for being with us. At the risk of being repetitive, or I guess, consistent, depending on your take, the framework for what I want to cover today should be familiar to you. It's been four quarters since we articulated a simplified strategy and how we plan on evaluating our success going forward based on three priorities. First, we wanted to grow subscriber relationships through our three market focus areas of 5G, fiber and HBO Max. Second, we initiated an effort to transform our business to be effective and efficient in everything we do so that we could allocate increased resources to support these focus areas. And third, we committed to deliberate capital allocation to support increased investment in growth, improve returns, narrow our operating focus and restore flexibility to our balance sheet. To achieve these priorities, we made some difficult near-term decisions to set our businesses up for success in the coming years. And that success is defined by improving our competitive position to the investment in best-in-class products and experiences for our customers. By doing so, we believe the execution of this strategy will drive better returns and profitable long-term growth. Let's look at what we've achieved in the past year on Slide 4. We made notable progress in each of our priorities. In wireless, we're gaining share, lowering churn and had our best 12 months of postpaid phone net adds in more than a decade. We just posted record quarterly wireless EBITDA. In fiber, customers have similarly responded to the combination of a premium service at attractive prices, and we've grown our base by more than 1 million subscribers. By year-end, we have expanded our fiber footprint by 3 million consumer and business customer locations. And just over a year after launch, we've grown our domestic HBO Max and HBO subscribers by 10.7 million. We transformed HBO from a $6 billion business that was not growing to an $8 billion run-rate business that grew at nearly 40% this quarter. We've also made solid initial progress in our cost-transformation efforts, which have produced $2 billion in savings that we've reinvested into our core growth areas. We're streamlining our operations and effectively growing digital fulfillment channels. Our NPS scores have improved significantly, and our fiber customers continue to rate us No. 1 in customer satisfaction. Churn levels have dropped substantially, too. Our second-quarter postpaid phone churn matched a record low. And in broadband, we had our lowest churn on record and the highest second-quarter fiber gross adds ever. At WarnerMedia, we continue to deliver great content. In the first half of the year, we introduced hit series, such as Mare of Easttown and Hacks. And our lineup in the back half of the year is even stronger with new seasons of popular series such as Succession, Raised by Wolves, Curb Your Enthusiasm and Love Life. That's on top of the day and date movies we'll have on the platform, such as Space Jam: A New Legacy, The Suicide Squad, Dune and Matrix 4. When the Emmy's were announced last week, HBO Max and HBO led the field with 130 nominations, the most of any network or platform. In total, WarnerMedia received more than 180 nominations. I'm really proud of the way the team is executing. And speaking of good execution, we're seeing indications that our DIRECTV deal with TPG might close in the next few weeks ahead of what we expected. Also, we're pleased with the new management team's ability to exceed operational expectations since we announced the transaction. Our intention with WarnerMedia is the same. We want to hit a strong exit velocity for both of these businesses, at which point the combination with the right partner only expands the respective opportunities for success going forward. And we continue to invest at strong levels. More than $60 billion in the last 12 months in 5G wireless, including spectrum, fiber and premium content. Finally, we announced or closed a number of noncore asset dispositions, supporting our path to balance sheet flexibility. At the same time, we've positioned each of our three major businesses, AT&T Communications, WarnerMedia and DIRECTV, the right capital structure, the right assets, the right management team. And in the case of the latter two, the right partners to optimize their returns to drive material value creation going forward. These decisions were not easy. And in some cases, they compelled us to rethink how to best deliver returns to our shareholders, leading us to balance long-term value creation with an attractive dividend. As our second-quarter results demonstrate, the momentum in our strategic areas of focus is real, supporting our view that we have the right business strategy and capital structure in place for longer-term success. Today, we're updating our 2021 outlook for our consolidated business, but our work is far from over. We know that consistent execution is the only way to win and keep our investors' confidence in the strategy we put forth. I couldn't be more pleased with the progress we're making. I'll turn it over to Pascal to discuss the details of the quarter. Pascal?Pascal Desroches -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. In the second quarter, we saw impressive growth across mobility, fiber and HBO Max. We added nearly 800,000 postpaid phones. That's our best second quarter in more than 10 years. Subscriber momentum continues to be strong, and we continue to take share. The gross adds are up, churn is at record low levels, and our average promotional spend per net add is significantly lower than a year ago, thanks to the consistency in our offerings. The story with fiber remains much the same. We continue to see solid subscriber growth with most of those customers new to AT&T. And broadband revenues grew more than 8%. HBO Max continues to exceed our expectations. Having surpassed the lower end of our global subscriber target six months ahead of plan, we are now raising our expectations to 70 million to 73 million global subscribers by the end of the year. We also launched our domestic ad-supported version of HBO Max, as well as our international offering in 39 Latin American territories at the end of the quarter. That sets us up for additional customer growth as our addressable market expand. Let's now turn to Slide 7 for our consolidated financial results. Last year, we saw the brunt of the pandemic's impact on our Q2 results. While the pandemic is still having some impact on our results, we're seeing our businesses emerge stronger than before, with growth accelerating in our market focus areas. Revenues were up more than $3 billion or 7.6% from a year ago. Gains in WarnerMedia, mobility and consumer wireline more than offset declines in video and legacy business services. Adjusted EBITDA declined mostly due to pandemic impacted timing of sports cost in last year's second quarter. We'll talk more about that in a moment, but we expect most of that to reverse itself next quarter. In fact, we expect consolidated EBITDA to be flat to up modestly next quarter and improving thereafter. Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.89. That's up more than 7% year over year. This includes about $200 million of pre-tax gains, principally from mark-to-market gains on benefit plan investments. Adjustments for the quarter included a $4.6 billion pre-tax noncash write-down of the Vrio assets based on our sales transaction announced yesterday. Cash flows continue to be resilient. Cash from operations came in at $10.9 billion for the quarter. Free cash flow was $7 billion, even with a $2.4 billion increase in WarnerMedia cash content investment. Our dividend payout ratio was about 55%. Cash flows this quarter were also impacted by the capitalization of interest of about $250 million associated with our recent C-band spectrum purchases, which are recorded as investing activities. This accounting treatment stops once the spectrum is deployed. Let's now look at our segment operating results, starting with our communications business on Slide 8. Our communications segment grew revenues, driven by gains in mobility and consumer wireline. Mobility growth continues to accelerate, and we delivered another terrific quarter. Our simple postpaid phone offers continue to resonate with customers. Revenues were up more than 10%, with service revenues growing 5%. Postpaid phone churn marked a record low, and we continue to have strong customer growth, especially in our postpaid phone base. Our postpaid phone customer net adds improved by nearly 1 million year over year. And EBITDA is up $200 million, our highest-EBITDA quarter on record. This growth came without a material return in international roaming revenues and a difficult comparison to last year's Q2 that included more than $100 million of gains on tower sales. As you think about the balance of the year, keep in mind, we are expecting a normal handset introduction cycle in the third quarter versus last year's fourth-quarter launch. Also, on the timing front, we expect our recent agreement with DISH to provide a boost to wireless service revenues in 2022. Business wireline continues to deliver consistent margins and solid EBITDA, even as customers transition away from higher-margin legacy services and products. We saw a sequential improvement in both EBITDA and EBITDA margins. Year-over-year comparisons were impacted by benefits related to the pandemic in the year-ago quarter. We expect similar challenging comps in the third quarter. However, with continued product rationalization and cost management, we're very comfortable with maintaining business wireline margins in the high 30% for the remainder of the year. Our fiber growth continues to be solid. We added 246,000 fiber customers in the quarter. Broadband ARPU grew by 6.1% year over year. Our aggregate fiber penetration rate is now more than 36%, up from about 31% a year ago. And nearly 80% of net adds are new AT&T broadband customers. We've reached a major inflection point in our consumer wireline business. Broadband revenue growth now surpasses legacy declines. This helped drive consumer wireline revenues up 2.9%. We expect broadband revenues to continue to outpace legacy decline. EBITDA trends are also expected to continue improving as we make our way through the second half of the year. Let's move to WarnerMedia's results, which are on Slide 9. We feel really good about our execution at WarnerMedia coming out of the pandemic. Subscription, advertising and content revenues have accelerated. Customers love HBO Max, and subscriber growth is exceeding expectations. And we had a successful launch of both our ad-supported and international HBO Max offerings late in the quarter. Revenues were up more than 30%, thanks to higher subscription, advertising and content revenues. Direct-to-consumer subscription revenues grew nearly 40%, reflecting the success of HBO Max. Advertising revenues were up nearly 50%, driven by sports. And upfront negotiations so far have been really strong. Content and other revenues were up 35%, reflecting the recovery of TV production and theatrical releases. The return of sports had a big impact on advertising revenues and EBITDA in the quarter. In fact, sports contributed more than $400 million of advertising revenues, and we incurred sports costs of $1.1 billion in the quarter. So discrete losses from sport increased more than $600 million year over year due to last year's suspension of sports in the second quarter. We expect most of that to reverse itself in the third quarter as the prior-year third quarter included the restart of the NBA season. We now have 47 million domestic HBO Max and HBO subscribers and more than 67 million worldwide subscribers, and domestic ARPU is just a little less than $12. Our ad-supported international offerings were launched too late in the quarter to have much of an impact on the second-quarter results, but we're enthusiastic about their prospects, given the initial receptivity. As mentioned earlier, we are raising our subscriber growth expectations for the year. We're seeing good momentum, especially in our Latin American markets. We expect most of our subscriber growth for the remainder of the year to be from lower ARPU subscribers in that region. To lean into HBO Max fast start in Latin America, we may push back our launch in some European markets until early 2022. This shift is factored into our revised HBO Max subscriber guidance for the year. Now let's shift to guidance. As John mentioned, we updated our consolidated guidance for the year. Let's discuss that on Slide 10. As a reminder, our guidance for 2021 is on a business-as-usual basis and includes a full-year contribution from DIRECTV. Based on the momentum we're seeing across our operations, we now expect consolidated revenue growth in the 2% to 3% range, up from the initial 1% guidance. We also expect wireless service revenue growth of 3% for the year, up from about 2%. Adjusted EPS is now expected to increase in the low to mid-single-digit range. That's up from our earlier guidance of stable with 2020. Gross capital investment expectations remain in the $22 billion range, and we now expect about $27 billion in free cash flows for the year. Also, we now have better clarity on the projected close of the DIRECTV transaction. We expect the transaction to close in early August. Here is the expected impact from excluding five months of DIRECTV on the consolidated financial guidance we just laid out. Revenues are expected to be lower by $9 billion. EBITDA is expected to be lower by $1 billion. Free cash flow is also expected to be lower by about $1 billion, equating to $26 billion for the full year. We expect no change to our updated adjusted EPS guidance as benefits from the accounting treatment related to the NFL Sunday ticket are largely expected to be offset by certain fixed costs that were previously allocated to DIRECTV. Capital investment guidance is also expected to remain the same. Obviously, the actual financial impact could vary depending upon DIRECTV's performance, the actual close date and other considerations. We recognize the financial structure of the DIRECTV transaction is complex. That is why we included some incremental details on cash and dividend distribution terms in our press release. Shortly after we close the deal, we plan on providing pro forma historical financials to help your modeling going forward. Amir, that's our presentation. We're now ready for the Q&A.Amir Rozwadowski -- Senior Vice President, Finance, and Investor Relations Thank you, Pascal. Operator, we're ready to take the first question. 