  OperatorGood afternoon, and welcome to Digital Realty first-quarter 2021 earnings call. Please note, this event is being recorded. [Operator instructions] Due to time constraints, we will conclude promptly at the bottom of the hour. I would now like to turn the call over to John Stewart, Digital Realty's senior vice president of investor relations. John, please go ahead.John Stewart -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, operator. The speakers on today's call are CEO, Bill Stein; and CFO, Andy Power. Chief Investment Officer Greg Wright; Chief Technology Officer Chris Sharp; and Chief Revenue Officer Corey Dyer are also on the call and will be available for Q&A. Management may make forward-looking statements, including guidance and underlying assumptions. Forward-looking statements are based on expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For a further discussion of risks related to our business, see our 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC. This call will contain non-GAAP financial information. Reconciliations to net income are included in the supplemental package furnished to the SEC and available on our website.Before I turn the call over to Bill, I'd like to hit the tops of the waves on our first-quarter results. First, we demonstrated our commitment to delivering sustainable growth for all stakeholders with efficient and socially responsible capital raises and corporate governance enhancements. We continue to enhance the value of our global platform, extending connectivity offerings globally, recycling capital, and investing to fuel high-quality organic growth. We delivered solid financial results with core FFO per share up 9% year over year and $0.09 ahead of consensus. Finally, we continued to strengthen our balance sheet, lowering our weighted average cost of debt with the redemption of high coupon debt and preferred equity while extending our weighted average duration with the issuance of attractively priced long-term capital. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Bill. 

 



Bill Stein -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, John. Good afternoon, and thank you all for joining us. Our formula for long-term value creation is a global, connected, sustainable framework. And our first-quarter results demonstrate the strength of this framework. Our business is increasingly global with first-quarter bookings very evenly balanced across regions. We continue to align PlatformDIGITAL with our customers' digital transformation initiatives by expanding our unique interconnection capabilities focusing on connecting centers of data across our robust, reliable global platform. Last, but not least, we continue to advance our initiatives to deliver sustainable growth for all stakeholders. Let's turn to our sustainable growth initiatives here on Page 3. We were recently honored to be named EPA Energy Star Partner of the Year for Energy Management for the second year in a row. We were also recently honored to receive the 2020 largest financial corporate Green Bond award from climate bonds initiative. We expect to publish our third annual ESG report during the second quarter, providing transparency on our ESG performance for 2020 as well as comprehensive overview of our clean energy commitment, resource conservation, diversity, equity and inclusion and other sustainable business practices. We are committed to minimize our impact on the environment while simultaneously meeting the needs of our customers, our investors, our employees, and the broader society.

 



 In terms of our social efforts, we recently joined leaders across 85 industries in signing the CEO pledge on CEO action for diversity and inclusion, an initiative to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace. Our board of directors also amended our corporate governance guidelines to clarify that director candidate pools must include candidates with diversity of race, ethnicity, and gender. Finally, in February, our board of directors amended our nominating and corporate governance committee charter to formalize oversight of our ESG programs, including sustainability as well as diversity, equity, and inclusion. We are doing our best to play a constructive, proactive role in advancing our broader goal of delivering sustainable growth for all our stakeholders, investors, customers, employees, and the communities we serve around the world. Let's turn to our investment activity on Page 4. We continue to invest in our global platform with 44 projects under way around the world, totaling more than 300 megawatts of incremental capacity scheduled for delivery over the next 18 months. Half of this expansion is under way in EMEA, while the balance is split roughly evenly between the Americas and APAC. In EMEA, we continued our extension of the highly connected legacy Interxion campus in Frankfurt. and began construction on the Neckermann expansion campus. During the first quarter, we broke ground on the first 26 megawatts on the expansion campus, which are scheduled for delivery next year. Demand in Frankfurt remains strong, in our campus with access to over 700 carriers and ISPs continues to attract customers from around the world. In France, we are adding capacity in Marseille as well as Paris. Demand in Marseille is largely driven by the 14 subsea cables that terminate in our facilities, where we are transforming a former abandoned World War two U boat bunker into a modern and vital communications hub for over half of the world's population. In Paris, we continue to develop interactions with Paris Digital Park, while the Donat subsea cable that links Paris to Virginia Beach was connected in our Paris campus during the quarter. We are also expanding our highly connected Brussels campus and breaking ground on another facility in Madrid to serve the broadening needs of service providers as well as enterprises. In APAC, we recently announced the grand opening of our third data center in Singapore. We were particularly pleased to be recognized by Singapore's Desmond Lee, minister of national development, highlighting the sustainable design of our most energy-efficient data center in the region. Despite some COVID-related construction challenges last year, we were gratified to be able to deliver this highly connected and sustainably designed facility to meet customer needs in our tightest market. Finally, in mid-March, we closed on the sale of a portfolio of 11 assets in Europe for approximately $680 million, executing on our strategy of recycling capital from stabilized assets, reinvesting proceeds into higher growth opportunities while prioritizing long-term value creation over near-term earnings growth. Let's turn to demand drivers on Page 5. We are fortunate to be operating in a business levered to secular demand drivers. Our leadership position provides us with a unique vantage point that enables us to detect secular trends as they emerge globally on platform digital. In the second half of last year, we introduced to our customers the Data Gravity Index, our market intelligence tool that projects the growing intensity of the enterprise data creation life cycle and its gravitational impact on global IT infrastructure. In the first quarter of this year, we took the next step and published an industry manifesto enabling connected data communities to guide cross-industry collaboration for our customers as they tackle data gravity head-on and unlock a new era of growth opportunity. Recent third-party research continues to support the growing relevance of data gravity. Market intelligence firm Gartner recently hosted an executive retreat and surveyed over 400 chief data and analytic officers, with 83% of CEOs expecting to increase investments in digital business with a large percentage of these firms prioritizing digital data products to drive growth. With this transition to data-driven businesses, Gartner predicts that by 2024, more than 75% of companies will deploy multiple data hubs to drive mission-critical data analytics, sharing, and governance. We are seeing growing momentum across our enterprise and service provider customers deploying their own data hubs and analytics environments in multiple metros on PlatformDIGITAL. As I mentioned earlier, Digital Realty was recently named Energy Star Partner of the Year by the United States Environmental Protection Agency for the second consecutive year. This award reflects our sharpened focus on driving sustainable design and operations on PlatformDIGITAL, underpinned by ambitious science-based targets to significantly reduce our carbon footprint by 2030. We are honored by the strong validation of our platform and our market-leading innovation to capture the growing global data center demand opportunity from data-driven businesses. Given the resiliency of the demand drivers underpinning our business and the relevance of our platform to meeting these needs, we believe that we are well-positioned to continue to deliver sustainable growth for customers, shareholders, and employees whatever the macro environment may hold in store. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Andy to take you through our financial results.Andy Power -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Bill. Let's turn to our leasing activity on Page 7. We signed total bookings of $117 million in the first quarter. including a $13 million contribution from Interxion. Network and enterprise-oriented deals of one megawatt or less totaled $33 million, building upon our consistent momentum and demonstrating the growing success of PlatformDIGITAL as we continue to capture a greater share of enterprise demand. The weighted average lease term was over seven years. We landed 100 new logos during the first quarter with strong showings across all regions, again, demonstrating the power of our global platform. The mix of our new signings was quite healthy, with APAC and EMEA each contributing approximately 30% and the Americas accounting for the remaining 40%. In addition, nearly 40% of bookings were generated within the megawatt or less plus Interxion category with strength in the e-commerce, gaming, and financial services segments. In terms of specific wins during the quarter and around the world, a particular highlight of the quarter was landing a leading APAC-based diversified digital economy platform in Singapore, where we were able to support this customer's needs across our full product spectrum from colocation and connectivity to a hyperscale dedicated data hall. Elsewhere in APAC, a leading cloud service provider expanded with us simultaneously in both Melbourne and Osaka. Subsequent to quarter end, we landed a leading cloud provider to anchor our Tokyo campus in Inzai, where we've assembled a runway of over 100 megawatts of growth capacity as well as key magnetic connectivity solutions. In EMEA, an automotive digital technology maker deployed an artificial intelligence, machine learning footprint on PlatformDIGITAL to gain access to a community of leading cloud service providers on our Frankfurt campus. In the Americas, a leading cloud provider expanded on our campuses in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. A Global 2000 industrial manufacturer leveraged a partner to deploy on PlatformDIGITAL to support growing demand enabled by our global platform and runway for growth on our suburban Chicago campus. A global digital advertising exchange platform expanded its presence on PlatformDIGITAL to gain access to connected data communities in the Northern Virginia metro area. Also in Ashburn, a leading video game developer selected PlatformDIGITAL to build centers of data exchange. And finally, a global IT service provider expanded in multiple metros across North America to enable new services on PlatformDIGITAL. Turning to our backlog on Page 9. The current backlog of leases signed but not yet commenced reached another all-time high at $307 million. The step-up from $269 million last quarter reflects $66 million of commencements during the first quarter, offset by roughly $104 million of combined space and power leases signed. The lag between signings and commencements was a bit longer than our long-term historical average at just under eight months. Moving on to renewal leasing activity on Page 10. We signed $193 million of renewals during the first quarter in addition to new leases signed. The weighted average lease term on renewals signed during the first quarter was a little less than three years, reflecting a greater mix of enterprise deals smaller than one megawatt. We retained 75% of expiring leases just a bit below our long-term average. Cash releasing spreads on renewals were negative 2.1%, which was in line with guidance but weighed down by two customers who were new to existing capacity as part of the expansion of their footprint on our platform. These transactions were prime examples of what we mean when we talk about our holistic long-term approach to customer relationship management. We believe we have a distinct advantage when we are competing for new business with a customer that we are already supporting elsewhere within our global portfolio. And whenever we can, we try to provide a comprehensive financial package across multiple locations and offerings, including both new business as well as renewals. In terms of first-quarter operating performance, overall portfolio occupancy ticked down 100 basis points, driven by anticipated churn in Ashburn as well as the sale of 11 almost fully leased facilities in Europe. Same capital cash NOI growth was negative 2.8% in the first quarter, in line with guidance and largely driven by the same Ashburn churn. As a reminder, our recently acquired Westin Building in Seattle, Interxion across EMEA, Lamda Hellix in Greece, and Altus IT in Croatia are not yet included in the same-store pool. But we expect each of these acquisitions will be accretive to our organic growth going forward. Turning to our economic risk mitigation strategies on Page 11. The U.S. dollar strengthened in the first quarter but still remains somewhat depressed relative to the prior-year average, providing a bit of an FX tailwind in the first quarter. As a reminder, we manage currency risk by issuing locally denominated debt to act as a natural hedge, so only our net assets within a given region are exposed to currency risk from an economic perspective. In addition to managing credit risk and foreign currency exposure, We also mitigate interest rate risk by proactively terming out short-term variable rate debt with longer-term fixed-rate financing. Given our strategy of matching the duration of our long-lived assets with a long-term fixed-rate debt, a 100-basis-point move in LIBOR would have less than a 50-basis-point impact on full-year FFO per share. Our near-term funding and refinancing risk is very well-managed, and our capital plan is fully funded. In terms of earnings growth, first-quarter core FFO per share was up 9% year over year and $0.09 ahead of consensus. The upside relative to our internal forecast was driven by a beat on the top line with an assist from an FX tailwind as well as operating expense savings primarily due to lower property level spending in the COVID-19 environment and a later than budgeted closing on the non-core European portfolio sale. A portion of the OPEX savings is likely timing-related and represents more of a deferral rather than permanent savings. But substantially, all of the beat flows through to the raise, and we are taking core FFO per share guidance up by $0.075 at the midpoint. In terms of the quarterly run rate, we still expect the split between first half of the year and the second half of the year to be approximately 49-51. In other words, as you can see from the bridge chart on Page 12, we expect to dip down by about $0.10 in the second quarter before ramping up fairly steadily over the rest of the year due to the mid-March closing of the non-core European portfolio sale as well as an expected catch-up in OPEX spend previously budgeted for the first quarter. I would like to point out that although we are raising our G&A forecast by $15 million at the midpoint, Our implied EBITDA margin guidance is unchanged as the lion's share of the increase is due to geography on the income statement as we finalize mapping the Interxion cost structure and have recharacterized a portion of Interxion's OPEX spend as overhead. In terms of our financing plans, we've already made great strides this year. with a highly successful EUR 1 billion green bond offering in early January at five-eights in addition to the proceeds from the asset sales in March. As always, we expect to remain nimble for the rest of the year and we may look to capitalize on favorable market conditions to lock in long-term fixed-rate financing at attractive coupons across the currencies that support our assets to proactively manage future liabilities. Last but certainly not least, let's turn to the balance sheet on Page 13. As previously mentioned, we closed on the sale of a portfolio of 11 assets in Europe for approximately $680 million and used the proceeds to pay down debt, bringing net debt to adjusted EBITDA back down to 5.6 times, in line with our long-term target range. Fixed-charge coverage reached an all-time high of 5.8 times, reflecting the results of our proactive liability management. We continue to execute on our financing strategy of maximizing the menu of available capital options while minimizing the related cost and extending the durations of our liabilities to match our long-lived assets. In early January, we raised $1 billion of 10.5-year green euro bonds at an all-time low coupon for Digital Realty of 0.625%. We also retired 350 million of 2.75% bonds due in 2023, and we repaid all 530 million outstanding on the term loan due in 2023. In mid-April, we announced the redemption of 200 million of preferred stock at six and five-eights, also bring total preferred equity redemptions over the past 12 months to 700 million at a weighted average coupon of just over 6.25, effectively lowering leverage by another 0.3 turns. This successful execution against our financing strategy reflects the strength of our global platform, which provides access to the full menu of public as well as private capital, sets us apart from our peers, and enables us to prudently fund our growth. As you can see from the chart on Page 13, we've extended our weighted average debt maturity out to nearly seven years while ratcheting our weighted average coupon down to 2.3%. A little over 70% of our debt is non-U.S. dollar-denominated, reflecting the growth of our global platform and acting as a natural FX hedge for our investments outside the U.S. 94% of our debt is fixed rate to guard against a rising rate environment, and 98% of our debt is unsecured, providing the greatest flexibility for capital recycling. Finally, as you can see from the left side of the Page 13, we have a clear runway with nominal near-term debt maturities and no bar too tall in the out-years. Our balance sheet is poised to weather a storm but also positioned to fuel growth opportunities for our customers around the globe, consistent with our long-term financing strategy. This concludes our prepared remarks, and now we will be pleased to take your questions. Operator, would you please begin the Q&A session? 