  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to the Delta Air Lines March quarter 2022 financial results conference call. My name is April, and I will be your coordinator. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. And I would now like to turn the call over to Julie Stewart, vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead.Julie Stewart -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, April, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us for our March quarter 2022 earnings call. Joining us from Atlanta today are our CEO, Ed Bastian; our president, Glen Hauenstein; our CFO, Dan Janki. Ed will open the call with an overview of Delta's performance and strategy. Glen will provide an update on the revenue environment. And Dan will discuss cost fleet and our balance sheet. After the prepared remarks, we will take analyst questions and we ask -- please limit yourself to one question and a brief follow-up so we can get to as many of you as possible. And after the analyst Q&A, we will move to our media questions.Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements that represent our beliefs or expectations about future events. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that may cause such differences are described in Delta's SEC filings. We'll also discuss non-GAAP financial measures, and all results exclude special items unless otherwise noted. You can find a reconciliation of our non-GAAP measures on the Investor Relations page at ir.delta.com. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Ed. Ed Bastian -- Chief Executive Officer Well, thank you, Julie. Good morning, everyone. We appreciate you joining us today. Before we begin, I want to acknowledge the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine. We are proud to have raised the Ukrainian flag at our global headquarters in Atlanta in solidarity with the people of Ukraine. At Delta, we've provided meaningful financial and operational support to assist the people of the region in connection with our partnership through the International Red Cross. This morning, we reported March quarter results, marking another important step forward in our recovery. We generated $200 million of free cash flow in the quarter and a 10% operating margin in the month of March. Our revenue recovery in the March quarter reached 79% of 2019 levels, five points ahead of the midpoint of our initial guidance. As expected, January and February generated operating losses. As omicron receded, we saw a surge in demand, supporting an inflection to a solid profit in the month of March. Delta continues to provide best-in-class operational, customer, and financial results in a dynamic environment. This results from the dedication, professionalism and hard work of Delta's more than 75,000 people worldwide. Restoring capacity during a period of rapid demand recovery has proven challenging for all of us in the industry but Delta people continued to lead the way, I want to thank our customers for their patience and understanding as we navigate the challenges of ramping up operations into the peak travel period. And I know, our teams have been working incredibly hard, and I want to thank all of them for what they're doing for our customers and for each other. We rewarded our people with a special profit-sharing payout in February based on the second half of 2021 profitability and announced a 4% pay increase that's going to be effective May 1. These actions align with Delta's long-standing values of shared success with our people. With the rebound in demand, the month of March was the best cash sales month in Delta's history, outpacing our prior record from spring of 2019 despite offering 10% fewer seats. In March, we had our first month in two years of positive unit revenue compared to 2019, and we achieved record co-brand acquisitions, co-brand spend, and cargo revenue. Domestic consumer revenues are exceeding 2019 levels and the recovery in business travel, revenue has accelerated as offices reopen and business travelers rebuild face-to-face relationships. Demand for long-haul international is growing, as travel restrictions lift, led by the Transatlantic. To date, we have not seen an impact to travel demand from the conflict in Ukraine, but we, of course, are monitoring this closely. Nearly all European countries have now removed entry testing requirements for vaccinated customers. We continue to join the rest of the US travel industry, in urging the US government to lift pre-departure testing requirements. As we prepare for the peak summer season, we continue to be very focused on operational readiness. With 4,000 new members joining the Delta team already this year, we feel good about our staffing and our ability to meet demand as we continue to restore the airline. Our customers are seeing the benefits of our ongoing investments to improve the travel experience. This spring, we are opening new, modernized terminals in Los Angeles, LaGuardia, and Seattle. These generational investments enhance Delta's already leading positions in key hubs and provide an elevated ground experience for our customers. We continue to upgrade our fleet, recently taken delivery of our first Airbus 321neo. The state-of-the-art aircraft is scheduled to begin service May 20 from Boston to San Francisco and features our new domestic first-class seat design, with nearly one-third of the seats in premium cabins and improved fuel efficiency, this will be the best aircraft we fly for our customers and generate the highest returns for our owners. Our strategic decision to accelerate investments in our airports, our fleet, and our technology during the pandemic will benefit Delta and our customers for years to come. As COVID shifts from a pandemic to a manageable seasonal virus, there are clear signs of pent-up demand for travel and experiences, as consumers' spending shifts from goods to services and experiences, travel restrictions lift and business travelers continue to return to the skies. Against this improving backdrop, we are building momentum in the June quarter, with expectations for a 12% to 14% operating margin and strong free cash flow despite higher fuel prices. Our revenue recovery is expected to reach 93% to 97% of the 2019 levels, with double-digit unit revenue improvement. We are successfully recapturing a significant portion of the run-up in fuel. This is occurring almost in real time, given the strong demand environment as well as Delta's growing brand preference, our premium product focus, and measured approach to capacity. While we are confident in summer demand and the capacity plans that we have in place, given macro uncertainty, we will remain nimble on capacity for the second half of the year and continue to prioritize sustained profitability. I'd like to pause and put that Q2 guidance into perspective. At 12% to 14% operating profit, we are only four points behind our June 2019 quarterly operating margin, and that's despite fuel prices being up 50% from that time period and our capacity only 85% restored. So we are greatly encouraged by the momentum we are seeing, and we remain confident in our outlook for meaningful full-year profit for 2022. As we take note of these achievements, I'm pleased with the progress we're making across the three core priorities we laid out at Capital Markets Day last December. First, we continue to fortify our trusted consumer brand, demonstrated by loyalty and record engagement with our customers. The strength of our brand has never been greater and has been recognized by the Wall Street Journal, Fortune, Business Travel News, and many, many others. And our customers are taking note that our Net Promoter Scores consistently above 2019 coming out of the pandemic. We intend to build on the momentum we gained over the last two years.Second, we are restoring our financial performance. As revenue improves and we regain a competitive cost structure, we're returning to profitability, generating strong free cash flow, and making progress on debt repayment. And our third priority is building a better future for our people and our planet, including our ongoing commitment to creating a sustainable future for aviation. We are continuing to invest in the physical, emotional, and financial well-being of our people while prioritizing diversity, equity, and inclusion at all levels of the company. Our mission of connecting the world has never been more important than it is today, and I'm as confident as ever that we'll achieve our ambition for a leading consumer brand to transcend the industry and deliver financial outcomes that create significant and resilient long-term value for all of our stakeholders. It's been an encouraging period of recovery, and it's exciting to see our customers returning to the skies. Thank you again. And with that, I'll turn it over to Glen to update the revenue environment.Glen Hauenstein -- President Thank you, Ed, and good morning, everyone. With robust demand, growing preference for the Delta brand, and quick actions to recapture higher fuel prices, we achieved significant milestones in the month of March and have momentum as we head into the summer. None of this would be possible without our people, and I couldn't be prouder of the Delta team and the results that they are delivering. A huge thank you to all. During the March quarter, we generated $8.2 billion of revenue. This was approximately $500 million higher than our initial guidance in January, resulting in a revenue recovery of 79% compared to 2019. We continue to execute a disciplined approach to keeping capacity in line with demand. For the quarter, capacity was 83% restored versus 2019 and at the low end of our initial guide and below the industry. The quarter was a tale of two halves. While omicron depressed demand in January and early February, we saw an unparalleled demand recovery from Presidents Day on. Our revenue recovery versus 2019 progressed from 70% in January to approximately 80% in February to 85% in March, with momentum building into April. March was the first month in two years of positive unit revenue compared to 2019 with PRASM up 1% and TRASM up 3%. Premium products once again led the way with domestic premium revenue approximately 100% restored to March of 2019 levels. We also achieved our highest ever monthly cash sales, as Ed mentioned, our highest direct sales, highest co-brand acquisitions, highest co-brand spend and highest cargo revenue in the month of March. Business travel volumes reached the highest post-pandemic levels we've seen and, importantly, in March, corporate fares inflected to positive versus 2019 for the first time. This drove an acceleration in the recovery of business revenues with improvement in both corporate contracted customers and small and medium-sized enterprises. As we exited the quarter, domestic corporate sales improved to approximately 70% recovered versus 2019, and our recent survey results show that 90% of our corporate accounts anticipate travel volumes to increase in the June quarter as offices continue to reopen. Additionally, we are seeing more corporates implement changes to travel policies. For example, domestic travel restrictions have been completely removed for all of our top corporate accounts. And increasingly, corporates are allowing upsells to premium cabins and refundable products. Strength in cash sales and seasonality drove a $2.8 billion sequential increase in our air traffic liability. The increase in advanced ticket sales outpaced normal seasonal trends, resulting in an ATL balance of $9.1 billion at the end of March, up from $6.6 billion in March of 2019. We expect the ATL will continue to build in the June quarter, albeit at a slower rate than what we saw in the March quarter. For the June quarter, we expect revenue recovery versus 2019, as Ed mentioned, to improve to 93% to 97% on 84% capacity restoration. This reflects a low double-digit TRASM growth versus 2019, with all entities expected to post positive unit revenues compared to 2019, except for the Pacific. We expect April yields to be up double-digits compared to 2019 with further strengthening as we approach June, positioning us to successfully recapture a significant portion of the higher prices -- fuel prices in the June quarter. Geographically, domestic and Latin revenues continue to lead the recovery, and fewer restrictions in major international markets are unlocking demand for long-haul travel. We expect a very strong summer in the Transatlantic based on demand trends. And in the Pacific, we are encouraged by the opening of Australia, South Korea, and other countries in Southeast Asia. When countries reopen, we see a rapid restoration of demand. For example, following South Korea's border opening on April 1, we expect load factors to improve from the low 50s in March to the low 90s by June. We expect that heavily restricted regions, such as China and Japan, will continue to put pressure on overall Pacific unit revenues until borders fully reopen. A few months ago at Capital Markets Day, we outlined three commercial strategy pillars, and we've made strong progress across each of these at the start of this year. First, our premium products continue to lead the recovery and the introduction of Delta Premium Select to the Transatlantic marketplace has been a success, with early returns far exceeding our expectations. By this summer, we will have expanded Delta -- EPS to 80% of our Transatlantic flights. Over the next few years, we expect premium seat growth to continue to outpace Main Cabin, and we're confident in the consumer shift toward higher-quality products is here to stay. To date, premium recovery has been led by consumer, and we see further upside as more and more business travelers return to the skies. Next, growing loyalty is evident across several key metrics. Our Net Promoter Score remains above 2019 even as volumes increase. And during the quarter, we acquired a record number of new SkyMiles members and our co-brand spend continues to far outpace 2019, up 39% in the month of March. Loyalty is an important driver of our third pillar, increasing our revenue diversification. Other revenue was fully recovered to 2019 levels during the March quarter, led by loyalty and cargo. Remuneration from American Express during the quarter of $1.2 billion was 25% higher than 2019, a new quarterly record that keeps us on track for our full-year goal of more than $5 billion in remuneration. Cargo had an exceptional quarter, up 51% compared to 2019, with the month of March marking our best ever cargo month in the company's history. MRO revenues were 22% below 2019 as supply chain issues slowed our engine throughput. MRO margins remain healthy, and we are excited to scale this business over the next few years as the installed base of next-generation engines continues to grow. By leveraging the Delta platform, we are further diversifying our revenue mix. In the March quarter, premium products and non-ticket revenue sources generated 58% of total revenue, up three points from the same period in 2019. This improvement gives us a high level of confidence in achieving our goal of more than 60% by 2024 as we laid out in Capital Markets Day. In closing, Delta has emerged in a stronger relative position by staying true to our core competitive strengths and our commitment to our customers and employees. And as the final phase of demand recovery takes hold and preference for our brand continues to grow, I am more confident than ever in Delta's path to exceed 2019 financial performance by 2024. And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Dan to talk more about the financials.Dan Janki -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Glen, and good morning to everyone. Starting with the highlights of the March quarter. Our operating loss was $793 million, was better than our expectation. As anticipated, we saw losses in January and February due to omicron and seasonal weakness. And we inflected to a solid profit in March, with a 9.4% adjusted operating margin. Fuel expense was $2.1 billion. It increased 32% sequentially from the December quarter. Fuel price per gallon averaged $2.79 for the quarter. This included a $0.07 per gallon benefit from the refinery. Non-fuel costs rose 6% sequentially, with non-fuel CASM up 15% compared to 2019 on 17% less capacity. We generated operating cash flow of $1.8 billion. We reinvested $1.6 billion into the business, resulting in free cash flow of $200 million. Delivering a profit in the month of March and positive cash flow for the quarter were important achievements, especially considering the impact of omicron and higher fuel prices. We ended the quarter with adjusted net debt of $20.9 billion. This was more than $1 billion better than our initial expectations due to strength in cash receipts that Ed and Glen spoke to. We repaid $1.4 billion of gross debt, ending March with nearly $13 billion of liquidity. Now turning to the outlook. We expect the June quarter non-fuel CASM to be up 17% compared to 2019. The two-point increase from the March quarter is driven by higher selling-related costs, an expected 45% sequential increase in revenue and our anticipated step-up in maintenance costs on a similar level of capacity restoration. With the first half non-fuel CASM in the mid-teens, which is two points higher than planned on lower capacity, we expect to be closer to the high end of the full range of up 7% to 10%, implying the second half will improve up to the mid-single digits. This improvement is driven by continued capacity restoration from the low to mid-80s in the first half to the mid-90s by the end of the year. The resulting scale and efficiency will drive the step function change in our non-fuel CASM. Now let me give you a little context on how we get this improvement. The recovery in international travel enables us to shift our wide-bodies from our domestic to our international, where we get better efficiency from gauge and stage and improved staffing. Narrow-body utilization will improve, with a 10-point increase expected by the end of the year, giving us a combined benefit of higher capacity and more efficient allocation of our fleet. Further, as we fill out our schedules and we create greater stability in our operations with more consistency and depth in both the domestic and the international network, this is enabling efficiency gains in our facilities and productivity of our workforce. We remain confident in our multiyear cost framework laid out at Capital Markets Day. Regaining a competitive cost structure is critical to our success. At the same time, we will continue to remain nimble on capacity as we manage for profitability in this higher fuel price environment. On fuel for the June quarter, we expect an adjusted fuel price per gallon of $3.20 to $3.35. This includes a $0.20 benefit from the refinery, and these are based on the forward curves as of last Friday. Our Monroe refinery provides a unique benefit, acting as a partial hedge to elevated cracks. This is especially true with New York Harbor Jet cracks, where our production at Monroe provides 100% offset. Based on our June quarter outlook for revenue and costs, we expect operating margins to be between 12% and 14%. With the expectations for solid profitability and further build in our air traffic liability, we expect to generate another quarter of positive free cash flow after investing $1.2 billion in the business and expect to end the June quarter with adjusted net debt of approximately $20 billion. As we achieve sustained cash generation, we will continue to opportunistically manage our balance sheet, reducing debt to return to investment-grade metrics and making progress toward our $15 billion adjusted net debt target by the end of 2024. For the year, our capex outlook of $6 billion is unchanged, with our reinvestment primarily driven by the continued renewal of our fleet. We expect to take delivery of approximately 70 new and gently used aircraft this year, including 26 A321neos. This large grade gauge aircraft fits well with our upgauging strategy and will be our most fuel-efficient aircraft in our fleet with the lowest seat cost. We also continue to accept delivery of new 220s, three, 3900s and three, 5900s. These aircraft are expected to contribute to the full restoration of our capacity and to our goal of using a 7% less fuel per ASM in 2022 when compared to 2019. In addition to the financial benefits, improved efficiency is an important step in our journey to a more sustainable future. During the quarter, we announced actions to scale and advance sustainable fuels. We signed an offtake agreement with Gevo for approximately 75 million gallons of SAF annually over seven years. We anticipate to start in mid-2026 progressing us toward our 2030 10% SAF commitment. We also announced a collaboration with Airbus on the research and development of hydrogen-powered aircraft and the infrastructure it requires. So in closing, we are executing against our priorities laid out at Capital Markets Day, and I'm encouraged by the momentum in our financial recovery. I would sincerely like to thank the Delta people for everything they do every day. Our people will always be our most important competitive advantage. So with that, I'll turn it back to Julie for Q&A.Julie Stewart -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thanks, Dan. April, can you please remind the analysts how to queue up for a question and then go to our first question. 