  OperatorWelcome to the First Quarter 2022 Arista Networks financial results earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded and will be available for replay from the investor relations section at the Arista website following this call. Ms. Liz Stine, Arista's director of investor relations, you may begin.Liz Stine -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me on today's call are Jayshree Ullal, Arista Networks president and chief executive officer, and Ita Brennan, Arista's chief financial officer. This afternoon, Arista Networks issued a press release announcing the results for its fiscal first quarter ending March 31, 2022. If you would like a copy of the release, you can access it online at our website. During the course of this conference call, Arista Networks' management will make forward-looking statements, including those relating to our financial outlook for the second quarter of the 2022 fiscal year, longer-term financial outlook for 2022 and beyond, our total addressable market and strategy for addressing these market opportunities, the potential impact of COVID-19, supply chain constraints, component costs, manufacturing capacity, inventory purchases and inflationary pressures on our business, product innovation and the benefits of acquisitions, which are subject to the risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our documentation filed with the SEC, specifically in our most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K and which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these statements. These forward-looking statements apply as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call.Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges. We have provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings press release. With that, I will turn the call over to Jayshree. Jayshree Ullal -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Liz. Thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon for our first quarter 2022 earnings call. In addition to the pandemic, we are now facing the global uncertainty with the war in Ukraine and increasing inflation trends. On behalf of Arista, we express our deep concern over the tragedies in Ukraine and thank the Arista employees for their thoughtful donations to the Ukraine humanitarian causes matched by the Arista Foundation. Back to Q1 2022. We delivered record revenues of $877.1 million for the quarter, with a non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.84. Services, software support renewals contributed approximately 19.2% of the revenue. Our non-GAAP gross margins of 63.9% was influenced by continuing supply chain constraints and elevated costs. Vendor decommits for certain components increased sharply in March 2022, with no clear relief in sight in the near term. In terms of Q1 2022 verticals, cloud titans was our strongest and largest vertical, followed by enterprise, cloud specialty providers and financials tied at third place, and service providers at fourth. Our geographical mix included strong performance in the Americas at 76%, with the international contribution at 24%. According to market analysts, in calendar 2021, Arista gained market share in overall data center, high-performance switching, growing to approximately 19% market share. We are proud to maintain our No. 1 position in 100, 200, and 400-gig switching and achieved this growth despite all the challenges of the supply chain. Arista has also been a pioneering leader in client to cloud networking. Our customer relevance is increasing with new logos in tech enterprises, healthcare, education and retail, as well as the provider sector. Our million-dollar logos have doubled in the last three years in all categories. These categories include greater than 1 million, greater than 5 million, greater than 10 million, and greater than 25 million customers. What's clear as I personally engaged across the worldwide base of CIOs and CSOs is that the planning horizon for networking has really changed. Our visibility and demand has never been stronger. The nature of our discussions with our customers is also most strategic in nature. Let me try to illustrate with a few examples. For example, on AI Spine, we're building upon our cloud heritage to expand scale for AI workloads that are both data and compute-intensive, thereby requiring 100-, 400- and 800-gig performance in the future with rich EOS software feature. In the cognitive campus, threat hunting is now becoming integral to the network instead of being an assessor and is changing the way cybersecurity and viruses and threats can be detected and managed holistically. Network security is clearly migrating to secure Zero Trust networking based on AI and AVA sensors. In larger enterprises, network as a sales service based on CloudVision is enabling our customers to manage their data sets across client-to-cloud domains with superior, unmatched automation and analytics. Our decade-long preferred partnership with cloud titans, especially Microsoft and Meta, has helped forge joint engineering products for hyper cloud scale all the way now to edge use cases. Clearly, Arista is in the midst of an exciting and growing total available market or TAM expansion to fulfill our customers' quest for proactive, predictive and prescriptive networking, all this with the right data-driven foundation and architecture. This Network Data Lake EOS stack that we launched last November, is resonating well, and it's validating our customer network design. In conclusion, I'm so proud of Arista's progress and traction and look forward to multiple years of double-digit growth. And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Ita for Q1 2022 financial specifics.Ita Brennan -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Jayshree, and good afternoon. This analysis of our Q1 results and our guidance for Q2 '22 is based on non-GAAP and excludes all noncash stock-based compensation impacts, certain acquisition-related charges and other nonrecurring items. A full reconciliation of our selected GAAP to non-GAAP results is provided in our earnings release. Total revenues in Q1 were $877.1 million, up 31.4% year over year and well above the upper end of our guidance of $840 million to $860 million. Our enterprise business continued to contribute healthily to our overall revenue growth in the first quarter, combined with accelerated shipments to our cloud titan customers, some of which were deferred. Supply remained constrained in the quarter with supplier decommits resulting in higher broker purchases and expedite fees in the period. Services and subscription software contributed approximately 19.2% of revenue in the first quarter, down from 21% in Q4. International revenues for the quarter came in at $212.7 million or 24% of total revenue, down from an unusually high 29% in the fourth quarter of 2021. This decline in international mix primarily reflects some volatility with our global customers, including the deferral of some international cloud shipments in the period. Overall gross margin in Q1 was 63.9%, above the midpoint of our guidance range of approximately 63% to 64%. Operating expenses for the quarter were $225.3 million or 25.7% of revenue, up from last quarter at $206.2 million. R&D spending came in at $144.3 million or 16.5% of revenue, up from last quarter at $130.3 million. This primarily reflected increased headcount and higher new product introduction costs in the period. Sales and marketing expense was $66.2 million or 7.5% of revenue compared to $61.2 million last quarter, with increased headcount and strong shipments driving higher variable compensation expenses for the period. As a reminder, we continue to benefit from lower COVID-related travel and marketing expenses. Our G&A costs came in at $14.8 million or 1.7% of revenue, consistent with last quarter. Our operating income for the quarter was $335.6 million or 38.3% of revenue. Other income and expense for the quarter was a favorable $3 million, and our effective tax rate was approximately 20.7%. This resulted in net income for the quarter of $268.7 million or 30.6% of revenue. Our diluted share number was 319.7 million shares, resulting in a diluted earnings per share number for the quarter of $0.84, up approximately 35% from the prior year. Now turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and investments ended the quarter at approximately $3.4 billion. We repurchased $136.2 million of our common stock during the first quarter at an average price of $116 per share. As a reminder, we've now repurchased approximately $209 million or 1.8 million shares against our October 2021 $1 billion board authorization. The actual timing and amount of future repurchases is dependent on market and business conditions, business requirements, stock price, acquisition opportunities and other factors. Now turning to operating cash performance for the first quarter. We generated $217.1 million of cash from operations in the quarter, reflecting strong earnings performance, combined with continued working capital investments. DSOs came in at 67 days, up from 58 days in Q4, reflecting the linearity of billings and growth in deferred revenue in the period. Inventory turns were consistent with last quarter at 1.7 times. Inventory increased to $694.2 million in the quarter, up from $650.1 million in the prior period, primarily reflecting higher component inventory. Our purchase commitment number for the quarter was $4.3 billion, up from $2.8 billion in Q4. The significant increase in commitments largely represents orders for 2023 and beyond, reflecting overall strength and demand for those periods and our expectation that this long lead time supply environment continues. As a reminder, we continue to prioritize newer, early life-cycled products for inclusion of these strategies in order to help mitigate the risk of excess our obsolescence. Our total deferred revenue balance was $1.1 billion, up from $929 million in Q4. The majority of the deferred revenue balance is services-related and directly linked to the timing and term of service contracts, which can vary on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Approximately $327 million of this balance, up from $160 million last quarter, represents product deferred revenue, largely related to acceptance clauses for new products, most recently with our large cloud titan customers. As a reminder, we remain in a period of significant new product introductions combined with a healthy new customer acquisition rate and expanded use cases with existing customers. These trends have resulted in increased customer-specific acceptance clauses and higher product deferred revenue amounts. Accounts payable days were 58 days, down from 63 days in Q4, reflecting the timing of inventory receipts and payments. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $14.9 million. Now turning to our outlook for the second quarter and beyond. Our analyst day outlook for 2022 calls for 30% year-over-year revenue growth, somewhat balanced across our market sectors and heavily constrained by the supply environment. As we progress through 2022, demand metrics remain strong across the business with particular strength from our cloud titan, other cloud and enterprise customers. While we've added manufacturing capacity and component supply in response to this demand, supplier decommits make forecasting accelerated shipment momentum difficult. These decommits also have a negative impact on gross margin as we must turn to other sources to try to backfill decommitted components in the quarter. From a business model perspective, this means that in this supply constrained environment, any accelerated growth, while accretive to the bottom line, may come with a lower gross margin percentage due to increased cloud mix and additional expedite fees. Turning specifically to Q2. We expect revenues of approximately $950 million to $1 billion, including approximately $50 million of cloud-related deferred revenue recognition from the balance sheet. On the gross margin front, an expected healthy cloud mix in the quarter, combined with 200 to 300 basis points of assumed expedite costs, would result in gross margins of approximately 60% to 62%. As to spending and investments, we expect to continue to grow our investments in R&D and sales and marketing in line with our baseline investment plan. With all of this as a backdrop, our guidance for the second quarter, which is based on non-GAAP results and excludes any noncash stock-based compensation impacts and other nonrecurring items, is as follows: Revenues of approximately $950 million to $1 billion, gross margin of approximately 60% to 62% and operating margins of approximately 37% to 38%. Our effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 21% with diluted shares on a post-split basis of approximately 320 million shares. I will now turn the call back to Liz. Liz?Liz Stine -- Director of Investor Relations Thank you, Ita. We will now move to the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. [Operator instructions] Thank you for your understanding. Operator, take it away. 