
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, hello and welcome to the Ingersoll Rand First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Maxine and I'll be coordinating the call today.[Operator Instructions]I would now hand over to your host, Chris Miorin, from Ingersoll Rand to begin. Chris, please go ahead when you are ready.Christopher Miorin -- Vice President, Investor RelationsThank you and welcome to the Ingersoll Rand 2021 first quarter earnings call. I'm Chris Miorin, Vice President of Investor Relations. And joining me is Vicente Reynal, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Vik Kini, Chief Financial Officer.This is my first earnings call in the Investor Relations role, and I look forward to working with you all.We issued our earnings release and presentation yesterday that we will reference during the call. Both are available on the Investor Relations section of our website, www.irco.com. In addition, a replay of this conference call will be available later today.Before we start, I want to remind everyone that certain statements on this call are forward-looking in nature and are subject to the risks and uncertainties discussed in our previous SEC filings, which you should read in conjunction with the information provided on this call. Please review the forward-looking statements on slide 2 for more details.In addition, in today's remarks, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. You can find a reconciliation of these measures to the most comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in our slide presentation and in our earnings release, both of which are available on the Investor Relations section of our website.On today's call, we will provide a company strategy update, review our company and segment financial highlights and offer updated 2021 guidance. For today's Q&A session, we ask each caller keep to one question and one follow-up to allow for time for other participants.At this time, I'll turn the call over to Vicente.Vicente Reynal -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Chris. And good morning to everyone. Let me begin by welcoming Chris to his role. As Vice President of Investor Relations, Chris replaces Vik in the role who was appointed to CFO in June of last year.I am delighted to be working alongside both of them. Chris previously led corporate development for the company and played a critical role in accelerating our growth strategy, most recently with the acquisitions of Tuthill and Albin Pump, as well as the completed divestitures of HPS and announced divestiture of Club Car.I would like to especially thank Chris for his military service in the US Army. During his military career, he served as infantry officer and ranger, including a deployment in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Chris also held leadership roles in the Old Guard at Arlington National Cemetery and served as an aide to the President of the United States.Following the military, Chris held roles in finance and investment banking, before joining us to direct strategy and corporate development efforts. He is a proud veteran who continues to help fellow veterans transitioning from military to civilian life. And he is integral to executing our strategic plan to deliver value for our shareholders. Chris is one example among our 16,000 employees who live our company purpose inside and outside the company.As you see on slide 3, anchoring to our purpose is working. We're realizing the achievement of our desired target. You'll hear three key themes today. First, we're accelerating our transformation. It's amazing to think, a year ago, we closed the Ingersoll Rand Industrial transaction. And today, we're unlocking approximately $2 billion of value with two strategic divestitures, putting us in a great position to continue our portfolio transformation.Second, you will hear about how we are over-delivering to our expectations. As you will recall, during the down year of 2020, we controlled decremental margins. And now in the upcycle, we're delivering solid incremental margins. We're delivering strong organic growth in orders and revenue. And that illustrates our organic investments in demand generation and new product development are also working.And third, you'll hear how Ingersoll Rand execution excellence, what we call IRX, is becoming our economic engine to unlocking our potential. The processes are only as good as the team that executes them. Culture and human capital management are key differentiators at Ingersoll Rand.We have a highly engaged workforce who act like owners because they are owners. Every day, our employees make decisions that demonstrate thinking and acting like owners with the power of IRX behind them.Our employees all around the world deserve sincere thanks for their adaptability, resiliency, dedication and determination. We will continue supporting our employees with an unwavering focus on health, safety and mental well-being. And on that point, our thoughts are with everyone dealing with pandemic situations, particularly in India right now.Moving to slide four, you see the roadmap we highlighted during our Q3 2020 earnings call. And since then, we have achieved substantial traction. Today, I will concentrate remarks around the last two strategies, as we have had a lot of recent momentum across these areas.Starting with operate sustainably, and turning to slide 5, operating sustainably is one of our strategic pillars because it engages employees, customers and communities, while delivering shareholder returns. In February, we committed to some aggressive targets around climate goals. I am proud our teams continue to deliver and execute on these goals.For example, last week was Earth Day. And our employees participated in planting more than 3,000 trees and collecting over 4,000 pounds of waste, while recycling almost 20% of that. However, advancing our ESG journey goes beyond our environmental commitments. It is also about our social and governance actions.Last week, you saw we announced our 2025 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion goals. We set these goals to accelerate and illustrate our commitment to the representation of talent and the career advancement and sense of belonging of all employees.And actually, one of the boldest and most belonging acts we have done in support our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts, a connection that some may not readily make, was around our $150 million equity last September to all of our employees worldwide.Broad-based employee ownership has an equity component not often explored. Equity grants and broad-based employee ownership, such as what we did, provide employees a tangible financial stake in company performance. And that benefits employees, families, communities, and the economy at large.Repeatedly, studies show underrepresented population increase their earnings and wealth if they are employed in organizations that offer equity grants. And that's a powerful aspect of our thinking and acting like an owner that ties into equity and how we directly impact global ESG efforts.As I said last quarter, we see broad-based employee ownership as a game changer. Our human capital management priorities are part of why we added operate sustainably as a strategic pillar. Our diversity, equity and inclusion goals are the latest advancements. And we will use IRX as our key enabler to deliver on these goals as we do every other critical initiative in our company.Moving to slide 6, we have also used IRX to deliver against our capital allocation strategy. And as we see here, the outcome has been extremely effective. On the first of this month, we completed the majority interest sale of the High Pressure Solution segment and a little more than a week later announced an agreement to sell Club Card. IRX enabled us to accelerate these transactions and make them happen.We have solid processes executed by engaged teams to ensure we always maximize value creation in an expedited way. And that's our special and unique economic engine. With these divestitures, we're proud the buyers will continue the commitment to employee ownership, which may be a little unusual for this type of transaction. But as I said before, it is important to us on many fronts. And with these divestitures, we're unlocking approximately $2 billion in value.And on slide 7, we see a visual illustrating the volume and timing of transaction milestones in our evolution over the last four years, including the completed and announced divestitures this month.Last quarter, I mentioned capital allocation is a huge part of my personal focus. And I have been actively discussing this with our Board. Those discussions continue. And as we have done all along with our capital allocation strategy, we will inform you when there is something significant to share.Along with this today, I'll give you some additional color on how we have enhanced our inorganic growth strategy. So, let's look at slide 8. I have mentioned IRX discipline a lot this morning. It is an execution engine to drive change in every area of the business, from our environmental goals and net working capital goals to our new product development goals and our diversity, equity and inclusion goals.IRX has been transformational in helping us with the integration of companies like Tuthill and Albin, as well as helping us with divestitures and accelerating our M&A funnel. You can see our funnel has increased 5x since Q2 of last year. The average revenue of the companies in the funnel has increased by more than 50%. And we're moving potential acquisitions through the funnel much faster.And we have not only been integrated in Ingersoll Rand and Gardner Denver over the past year, but we have also completed eight bolt-on acquisitions with Tuthill Vacuum and Blower Systems being the most recent one.And we have already seen solid progress with Tuthill, such as growth outside the US where we highlighted that as a great opportunity, and already received a multimillion dollar order in Asia Pacific during the first quarter.The simultaneous execution of small growth, acquisitions and divestitures highlights how IRX enables capabilities to drive significant inorganic growth.I will now turn it over to Vik to provide an update on our financials. Vik?Vikram Kini -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Vicente. Moving to slide 9, we continue to be pleased with the performance of the company in Q1. Q1 saw strong balance of commercial and operational execution, fueled by the use of IRX, with continued signs of improvement across industrial end markets.Total company orders and revenue increased year-over-year 29% and 17% respectively, with strong double-digit organic orders growth across each segment. In fact, our organic growth on both orders and revenue in the quarter were records for the company and set us up well as we move into Q2.In addition, the company continued to drive performance on productivity and synergy initiatives using IRX as a catalyst, and we remain on track to deliver on our $300 million cost synergy commitment.The company delivered first quarter adjusted EBITDA of $293 million, a year-over-year improvement of $107 million and adjusted EBITDA margins of 21.4%, up 550 basis point improvement year-over-year. Continuing performance from previous quarters, we also achieved incremental margins of 54% in Q1.One item to note, these financial metrics do not include the High Pressure Solution segment, which was classified as discontinued operations in Q1 with relevant restatement to prior periods. Given the recently completed sale, we will not report on the segment moving forward.Free cash flow for the quarter was $108 million, up $78 million year-over-year, yielding total liquidity of $2.6 billion at quarter-end.Turning to slide 10, for the total company, orders increased 25% and revenue increased 13%, both on an FX adjusted basis. The IT&S, Precision & Science Technologies and SVT segments all saw double-digit organic orders growth in the quarter.Starting first with IT&S. The total segment saw 13% FX adjusted orders growth with strong momentum in core compressor technologies, with the Americas showing mid-single-digit orders improvement, EMEA with low 20s percent growth, and Asia-Pacific with high double-digit improvement.Precision & Science saw 14% FX adjusted orders growth in the quarter. Continued double-digit growth in product lines like medical and Dosatron drove this performance, given their niche end market exposure in areas like lab, life sciences, water and animal health, as well as strong performance from the ARO brand, which primarily serves core industrial markets.Specialty Vehicle saw exceptionally strong orders performance, up 89% excluding FX. The team has shown positive orders growth for five straight quarters and Q1 saw continued strong growth in consumer vehicles, as well as golf offerings and aftermarket.Overall, we posted a strong book-to-bill of 1.24 for the quarter, an improvement from the prior-year level of 1.13. We remain encouraged by the strength of our backlog moving into Q2.The company delivered $293 million of adjusted EBITDA, an increase of 57% year-over-year. The IT&S, Precision & Science and SVT segments all saw year-over-year improvements in adjusted EBITDA and strong triple-digit margin expansion.And finally, corporate cost came in at $34 million for the quarter, consistent with prior expectations.Turned into slide 11. Free cash flow for the quarter was $118 million on a continuing ops basis, driven by the strong operational performance across the business and ongoing prudent working capital management. This compares to free cash flow of $30 million in the first quarter of prior year on a continuing ops basis in what is typically our seasonally weakest quarter from a free cash flow perspective.Capex during the quarter totaled $15 million and free cash flow included $10 million of outflows related to the transaction.From a leverage perspective, we finished at 1.9 times, which was an 0.1 turn improvement as compared to the prior quarter. This included $184 million cash outflow to fund the Tuthill acquisition, which closed in February and did not include the cash received from the HPS divestiture which closed in April. We have line of sight to leverage coming down materially to below 1 time once the SVC sale is completed, which, as mentioned previously, is expected in Q3 of this year.On the right side of the page, you can see the breakdown of total company liquidity, which now stands at $2.6 billion based on approximately $1.64 billion of cash on hand and nearly $1 billion of availability on our revolving credit facility.With our current liquidity and the additional cash we expect to receive from the HPS and SVT divestitures, we will have considerable balance sheet flexibility to continue our portfolio transformation strategy with M&A, coupled with targeted internal investment to drive sustainable organic growth.I will now turn it back to Vicente to discuss the segment performance.Vicente Reynal -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Vik. Moving to slide 12 and starting with Industrial Technologies and Services. Overall, organic orders were up 11% and revenue up 9%, leading to a book-to-bill of 1.14. In addition to orders and revenue growth, the team delivered strong adjusted EBITDA, up 57%, and adjusted EBITDA margins of 23.1%, up 610 basis points year-over-year, with incremental margin of 65%.Let me provide more detail on the orders performance. Starting with compressors, we saw orders up in the low 20%. A further breakdown into oil free and oil lubricated products show that orders for both were up above 20%.From a regional split for orders on compressors, in the Americas, North America performed comparatively better at up mid-single-digits, while Latin America was up low-single-digits. Mainland Europe was up mid-teens, while India, Middle East and Africa saw continued recovery at up high double-digits. Asia-Pacific continues to perform well, with orders up high double-digits, driven by high double-digit growth in both China and across the rest of Asia-Pacific.Moving to vacuums and blowers, orders were up low double-digits on a global basis, with double-digit growth across each of our regions.Moving next to the power tools and lifting, the total business was up low double-digits in orders and pivoted to positive growth, driven mainly by our enhanced e-commerce capabilities and improved execution.On the right side, we're highlighting the impact that our technologies are having on our customers' sustainability efforts. As you may remember, we acquired Runtech in 2017. Runtech designs and manufacturers energy-efficient solutions primarily for use in pulp and paper mills. Since the acquisition, we have done several new product launches, as well as expanded commercially in other regions, and this has led to a 65% increase in the installed base. This has helped achieve an average of 45% energy savings per installation and saves several billions of gallons of water annually across the installed base.Moving to slide 13 and the Precision and Science Technologies segment. Overall, organic quarters were up 12%, driven by the medical and Dosatron businesses, which serves lab, life sciences and water and animal health markets. These businesses were up double-digits. And we also saw strong performance in our more industrial end market oriented products, like Milton Roy and ARO.The momentum on our hydrogen solution continues to build and we saw some strong funnel activity. Revenue was up 7% organically, producing a book-to-bill of 1.2.Additionally, the PST team delivered strong adjusted EBITDA of $67 million, which was up 26%. Adjusted EBITDA margin was 31.2%, up 350 basis points year-over-year, with incremental margins of 59%.From a sustainability perspective, we're highlighting our YZ brand Zero Emission Odorization and YZ Connect. ZEO is an injection system that odorizes natural gas and hydrogen delivered to communities to help safeguard people. As customers replace legacy systems with our new ZEO, this product is expected to dramatically eliminate emissions of methane.Our customers odorization programs are further enhanced by YZ Connect, which provides remote monitoring capability through its Internet of Things, cloud platform, which is another example on how our customers can lean on us to help make life better.Moving to slide 14 and the Specialty Vehicle Technologies segment. Overall, Q1 was another very strong quarter for the SVT team. Orders and revenue were up organically 89% and 29%, respectively, driven by continued strength in consumer, golf and aftermarket product lines.Adjusted EBITDA of $48 million increased 162% year-over-year, leading to an adjusted EBITDA margin of 20.1%. This represents an outstanding 1,020 basis points improvement versus prior year, showcasing the power of IRX and the team's application to its tool to capture value and market share. And while this business continues to perform well, we made a strategic choice to divest the asset to continue aligning our portfolio to our mission-critical flow creation technologies.And as mentioned, we're very pleased with the strong economic outcome with the sale of Club Car to Platinum Equity. It was very important to us in this transaction and in our sale of HPS that we honor our commitment to employee ownership. As a result, employee recipients of our 2020 all employee equity grant will have 50% of the awards vest at closing and 50% will be replaced by a new equity linked program implemented by Platinum. We're very pleased with these outcomes for the Club Car team.Moving to slide 15, given the company's performance in Q1 and continued strong outlook, we're increasing guidance for 2021. Our initial revenue guidance was up high single-digits to low double-digits on a reported basis, comprised of mid-single-digit organic growth across each of the three segments.After removing SVT, we're now guiding up low double-digits with high single-digit organic growth across each of the segments. FX is expected to continue to be a low-single-digit tailwind for the business on a total year basis, given the weakening of the US dollar against major foreign currencies like euro and British pound. So, that is a slight headwind as compared to the initial guidance.From a phasing perspective, we anticipate the first half of the year to be up mid-teens, while the FX tailwinds remained most evident during the first half of 2021. Overall growth in the second half of the year is expected to normalize a bit comparatively, but still be up high-single-digits.We have received a lot of questions from investors on supply chain, inflationary pressures and the price cost dynamic. When we issued our initial guidance, we took the anticipated inflationary headwinds into consideration. And while we continue to see pressures around certain commodities and logistics, we have implemented our IRX tools to help mitigate the impact and our teams have executed very well, including price and execution, and our continued I2V initiatives.We do see this environment continue in Q2 and likely after. But we're confident that leveraging our IRX process and working with our suppliers will allow us to continue exceeding our customers' expectation.Based on these revenue assumptions, we're increasing 2021 adjusted EBITDA guidance to $1.12 billion to $1.15 billion, which represents approximately a $45 million improvement from original guidance at the midpoint of the range when excluding SVP.In terms of cash generation, we expect free cash flow conversion to adjusted net income to remain greater or equal to 100%. Capex is expected to remain 1.5% to 2% of revenue. And finally, we expect adjusted tax rate to be approximately 23%.Moving to slide 16, as we wrap up today's call, Ingersoll Rand is in a great place. 2021 is poised to be a great year. The first quarter provided a solid springboard, with momentum into Q2. We take our role as a sustainably minded industry leader very seriously. One who is focused on employee matters, like broad-based ownership, belonging and reducing our impact to the environment. I am proud of all of our employees around the world.Thank you for how you come together every day to be there for our customers, solve problems, and lean on each other and collaborate. I am confident we will continue to transform Ingersoll Rand and deliver increased value to all of our shareholders.And with that, I'll turn the call back to the operator and open for Q&A.