  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Splunk Inc. third quarter 2022 financial results conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised this call is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your host today, Ken Tinsley, vice president of investor relations and corporate treasurer. Please go ahead.Ken Tinsley -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Treasurer

 



 Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone. With me on the call today are Graham Smith, Jason Child, Shawn Bice, and Teresa Carlson. After market closed today, we issued a press release, which is posted on our Investor Relations website, along with supplemental materials. This conference call is being broadcast live via webcast, and following the call, an audio replay will be available on our website. On today's call, we will be making forward-looking statements, including financial guidance and expectations such as our forecast for our fourth quarter and full year of fiscal '22 and '23 as well as our future expectations of revenue mix, renewals, duration, RPO growth, cloud growth, bookings, cloud gross margin and operating cash flow; as well as trends in our markets and our business, our strategies, and expectations regarding our products, technology, strategy, customers, demands and markets. These statements are based on our assumptions as to the macroeconomic environment in which we will be operating and reflect our best judgment based on factors currently known to us, and actual events or results may differ materially. Please refer to documents we file with the SEC, including the Form 8-K filed with today's press release. Those documents contain risks and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.These forward-looking statements are being made as of today, and we disclaim any obligation to update or revise these statements. If this call is reviewed after today, the information presented during this call may not contain current or accurate information. We will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures, which are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided in the press release and on our website. With that, let me turn it over to Graham. 

 



Graham Smith -- Independent Chairman Thank you, Ken, and good afternoon, everyone. Before I talk about our Q3 results and business momentum, I'd like to first introduce myself. As you all learned a few weeks ago, Doug Merritt has stepped down as president and CEO, and the Board has appointed me interim CEO while they conduct a search to identify Splunk's next leader. I've served as a member of our board of directors since 2011, taking on the Chair role in 2019. Since I retired from the CFO role at Salesforce in 2015, I have served, and continue to serve, on the boards of category leaders and innovators across the SaaS landscape. Splunk is an extraordinary company. Having spent a decade on the board, I've always appreciated the power of our products, but it's a true honor to be leading its passionate, customer-focused employees. What differentiated Splunk's technology when I became a board member, our unmatched scalable index is still a critical and unique component of our platform. Over the years, we've built on that index to offer an extensible data platform that powers purpose-built solutions for security and observability, giving tens of thousands of organizations the ability to break down silos and investigate, correlate and take action on data at an incredible scale. What's more, over the last year and a half, Splunk has become the data foundation upon which our customers have adapted to a remote work environment and navigated the immense challenges and opportunities created by the global pandemic. I want to thank Doug for his innumerable contributions to Splunk. Doug built Splunk's amazing go-to-market muscle in his early years at the company and then took on the critical product and business model transformations, which have enabled Splunk to become a global tech leader that it is.

 



 Under Doug's leadership, Splunk has grown from $450 million in revenue to now nearly $3 billion in annual recurring revenue, propelling us toward a future where every organization can harness the full power of its data. Turning to our quarterly results. Our Q3 execution was strong as we continued to deliver high value to our customers around the world. Q3 was Splunk's first $1 billion cloud quarter with cloud ARR reaching $1.1 billion and growing 75% year over year. This was our 11th straight quarter of 70-plus percent cloud ARR growth. Our cloud bookings mix jumped to 68%, our highest ever. And our cloud dollar-based net retention rate increased to 130%. Total ARR grew 37% from the year-ago period, keeping Splunk in the rarefied group of multibillion-dollar companies growing faster than 30%. In October, we welcomed more than 20,000 Splunk customers, prospects, and partners to our .conf user conference. We showcased Splunk as the data foundation for the hybrid world. And we showed how our customers can unlock innovation by building resilience, improving security, and gaining end-to-end visibility of their data. We announced numerous platform innovations to help customers take action on data wherever it originates. We revealed our new Ingest Actions capability, enabling organizations to take action on data in motion to redact, filter, and route data to Splunk or to external S3 storage. Ingest Actions is just one of the new ways we are helping our customers manage their high-value data more economically. We also highlighted enhancements to Federated Search, providing a unified search experience whether the data is in the cloud or on-prem. This type of hybrid capability continues to differentiate Splunk even as we accelerate our cloud transformation. As we all know, security continues to be essential to digital transformation. So at .conf, we also highlighted our capabilities like risk-based alerting, threat intelligence management, and SOAR visual playbook editor to help customers detect, investigate and respond to threats faster through increased automation. One of our most important security wins in Q3 was with the US Navy. Our partner, Leidos, and the US Navy expanded their use of Splunk to further secure their mission-critical systems, adding Splunk for real-time monitoring of critical mission systems, which includes cybersecurity, NetOps, and continuous monitoring. Splunk's observability offering significantly improve performance, productivity and innovation across complex, hybrid, and cloud-native architectures. Our newly announced capabilities, including Splunk App for Content Packs, Real User Monitoring for Mobile, and Always-On Profiling are just a few of the new offerings that are empowering developers, site reliability engineers, and IT professionals to keep systems running and power the next phase of digital innovation. Progressive, the No. 1 commercial auto insurer in America, has expanded their already strong relationship with Splunk during Q3. Progressive, which is one of the more than 90 Fortune 100 companies that we are proud to count as our customers, decided to transition to Splunk Cloud with workload pricing during the quarter, gaining full-stack visibility with Splunk's entire Observability Suite. Our security and observability offerings are individually very powerful. But the true power of Splunk is when these solutions all come together on our differentiated data platform, providing customers the data foundation they need to thrive in today's hybrid unpredictable world. For example, during Q3, the University of Virginia selected the Splunk Cloud platform for data-driven security and the ability to search, analyze and visualize data across their IT infrastructure. Also in Q3, a Canadian telco selected Splunk security and observability to help keep millions of users connected through a variety of wireless, TV, and phone services. They chose Splunk to enable their entire team to observe, understand, decide upon and act on security instance from a single platform. Beyond our product news, we unveiled a number of advancements at .conf to help customers accelerate their cloud migrations to Splunk Cloud. We expanded the availability of workload pricing to all of our Splunk Cloud customers, providing the freedom to put more data into the Splunk platform and the choice to use it when customers want to bring even more value to their organization. We also launched our new Government Logging Modernization program, which further equips US government agencies to meet new cybersecurity mandates. Finally, we announced our reimagined Splunk Partner Program and joined an elite group of 10 other software companies as Accenture and Splunk took our partnership to the next level with the launch of the Accenture-Splunk Business Group. As we look forward, my immediate focus as interim CEO will be on maintaining our momentum throughout Q4 and into fiscal '23. I'm grateful to work alongside a world-class management team, who I'm confident will ensure we execute well in our most important new business and renewals quarter. As we prepare for next year, I'm excited to continue building on our strong foundation to best position Splunk for long-term success. We have an extraordinary opportunity to enable even more customers to make the move to Splunk Cloud. We've seen that customers who use Splunk Cloud are able to reallocate resources to higher-value tasks, take advantage of more flexible pricing and scale, and rapidly benefit from our latest product innovations. I didn't hesitate to step in as the interim CEO at Splunk based on my strong belief in our technology, our employees, and the huge opportunity ahead to help customers turn data into doing. I thank you all for welcoming me today and look forward to answering your questions. Jason?Jason Child -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Graham. And adding my thanks and appreciation to Doug for his leadership and partnership in my time here. We've never been in a stronger position to fuel our continued growth. Onto the quarter. Once again, our execution was very strong, and we ended with total ARR of $2.83 billion, up 37% year over year. Cloud ARR surpassed $1 billion for the first time, ending at just over $1.1 billion, up 75%. We ended the quarter with 635 customers with ARR greater than $1 million, up 43%. 270 of these customers had cloud ARR over $1 million, up 96% over last year. Our continued focus on customer cloud adoption drove a sharp increase in bookings mix this quarter with cloud accounting for 68% of total software bookings, a 14-point sequential increase and the highest rate we've ever reported. This resulted in $130 million of net new cloud ARR, more than double from Q3 last year; and total net new ARR grew almost $200 million, up 41%. As we've called out before, has RPO bookings has been skewed by shorter overall contract duration related to our customers' transformation to cloud as well as the change in our field compensation plans, specifically intended to drive average term contract duration downward, which in the near term we see trending to between 18 and 24 months. By shortening contract durations, we found that customers will engage sooner on the Splunk Cloud adoption or expansion strategy. With these factors continuing to normalize, RPO bookings is becoming a better indicator of bookings momentum. And in Q3, total RPO bookings was $804 million, up 56% over last year. On to P&L. Q3 cloud revenue was $243 million, up 68% over last year, reflecting acceleration of customer adoption of our cloud platform. Total revenues were $665 million in Q3, up 19% and somewhat muted from shorter-term contract durations. Professional services and education accounted for 8% of total revenues in the quarter. On margins, which are all non-GAAP. Cloud gross margin was 65% in Q3, up three points from last year as we realized leverage from scale and elasticity of the platform. Total gross margin was 77%, down slightly on a year-over-year basis due to the greater proportion of revenue contribution from cloud. Operating margin was negative 10% in Q3, significantly better than planned due to our bookings and top-line outperformance plus some expense savings from converting .conf to fully virtual. On the balance sheet, we ended the quarter with $1.6 billion in cash and investments after the repurchase of 5.5 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate $808 million. Since we began our repurchase program in July, we have repurchased a total of 6.9 million shares at an average price of $145.23 per share, more than offsetting the potential dilution from the conversion of the notes we issued to Silver Lake Partners early this year and completing repurchases under the $1 billion authorization. Turning to guidance. The demand environment remains strong, and customer engagement is excellent, especially for existing customers planning their hybrid deployments, as you can see in our higher cloud mix. We believe cloud momentum will continue, and we're now expecting approximately 70% mix in Q4, higher than we previously expected. Based on this, we're increasing our cloud ARR target to between $1.325 billion and $1.35 billion at year end while our total ARR target remains in the $3.085 billion to $3.135 billion range. On the income statement, the cloud transition continues to drive variability in our revenue and operating margin results. With significantly higher anticipated cloud mix in Q4, revenue growth will be tempered, just as we've seen in several prior quarters. With our highest-ever projected cloud mix of 70%, we expect total revenues of between $740 million and $790 million in the fourth quarter. On the expense side, while we have been realizing gradual leverage in our cost of services line, the pace of cloud gross margin expansion has been slightly lower than planned. For Q4, we are expecting cloud gross margin will be roughly in line with Q3 as we continue to migrate our installed base on to the newest version of our services. For opex, our overall expense run rate is slightly better than planned, and we expect a non-GAAP operating margin of between minus 2% and minus 8% in Q4. For the full year, higher cloud mix is driving lower total revenues, and therefore, pushing operating margins lower to between negative 15% and negative 17%. Our outlook for full-year operating cash flow was unchanged at approximately $100 million. Looking further out. As we start thinking about next year, we expect customer demand will remain strong. For fiscal '23, our initial view of total ARR is approximately $3.9 billion with our cloud business reaching at least $2 billion of ARR by year end. To highlight our accelerating growth, it took us three years to grow cloud ARR from $200 million to $1 billion. And now we expect it will take us only 15 months to grow it from $1 billion to $2 billion. In closing, Q3 was another strong quarter following an excellent first half. The overall demand environment remains robust, and our continued push on cloud adoption is accelerating our transition into its final phase. As a team, our relentless focus is on customer success, and we're set up well for a strong finish to the year. With that, let's open it up for questions. 