
OperatorGood afternoon. My name is Hector, and I will be your conference operator today. I would like to welcome everyone to Starbucks Coffee Company's Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now turn the call over to Greg Smith, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Smith, you may begin your conference.Greg Smith -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



Good afternoon everyone. Thank you for joining us today to discuss Starbucks' third quarter fiscal year 2021 results. Today's discussion will be led by Kevin Johnson, President and CEO; and Rachel Ruggeri, CFO. And for Q&A, we will be joined by John Culver, Group President, North America and Chief Operating Officer; Mike Conway, Group President, International and Channel Development; and Belinda Wong, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Starbucks, China.This conference call will include forward-looking statements, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from these statements. Any such statements should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements in our earnings release and risk factor discussions in our filings with the SEC, including our last annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Starbucks assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements or information.GAAP results in fiscal 2021 include several items related to strategic actions, including restructuring and impairment charges transaction and integration costs and other items. These items are excluded from our non-GAAP results. For certain non-GAAP financial measures mentioned in today's call, please refer to our website at investor.starbucks.com to find a reconciliation of those non-GAAP measures to their corresponding GAAP measures.This conference call is being webcast and an archive of the webcast will be available on our website through Friday, August 27, 2021. For your calendar planning purposes, please note that our fourth quarter and fiscal year-end 2021 earnings conference call has been tentatively scheduled for Thursday, November 4.

 



Finally, I want to take a moment on behalf of the company to recognize the contributions of Durga Doraisamy, Starbucks Investor Relations Partner for seven years including as the Head of IR for the past 2.5 years. Durga recently left Starbucks for an exciting opportunity overseas and we extend our deepest thanks for all she has done on behalf of the company, our partners and our shareholders.I'll now turn the call over to Kevin.Kevin Johnson -- President and Chief Executive OfficerWell, thank you, Greg. I too want to wish Durga and her husband well, as they begin a new adventure in London. Durga leaves the team and our investor community in great hands with you, Greg, and thank you for stepping in to lead Investor Relations while we search for a permanent replacement for this important role.

 



Well, good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today. As we celebrate Starbucks 50th anniversary, we are reminded of the increasing premium on genuine human connection, which is always been at the heart of Starbucks. If there is any less, then we can take from this past year, it is that our promise to uplift the every day through authentic human connection over coffee is enduring, and has never been more valuable and sought after. As humans we belong together, and Starbucks was built for this moment. Now with customer mobility increasing, we are at the beginning of what we described as the Great Human Reconnection. The reopening of markets is translating to incredible increases in demand for Starbucks as people are again on the go, reconnecting and socializing with one another.Human connection is the very foundation of the Starbucks experience. The differentiated experience we create for our customers, strengthened through the actions we've accelerated over the past year, enables us to meet our customers wherever they need us to be. That experience is core to who we are at Starbucks and it drove significant momentum through Q3, that experience is also a direct reflection of the 400,000 Green Apron partners who continue to make every moment right. It is our partners who deliver the elevated and uplifting experiences for each of the millions of customers we serve every day. Our partners make the difference. They are the heartbeat of Starbucks and for that, I am incredibly proud.Now, let me take you through Q3, which is highlighted by record-breaking results, fueled by the continued strength of the Starbucks brand around the world. The impressive momentum Starbucks saw in Q2 accelerated through Q3 in which we delivered record revenue of $7.5 billion, up 78% year-on-year and a record non-GAAP EPS of $1.01. Additionally two-year comparable store sales improved sequentially, led by an incredible overall performance in the US as well as significant net new store growth in China, where we reached over 5,100 stores during the quarter and the double-digit growth and continued share gains that our channels business delivered in the At Home market.Our performance globally reflects the strength of our diverse portfolio and the benefits of scale, as we once again exceeded higher [Phonetic] expectations for the quarter, despite inflationary pressures and ongoing pandemic related restrictions in certain global markets. Our focus, combined with our unwavering commitment to innovating and elevating the Starbucks experience as our key differentiator has proven successful time and time again. All of this gives us confidence to raise guidance for the balance of the year, and further positions the company for solid long-term growth.In the US, our momentum accelerated in Q3, posting year-on-year revenue growth of 90% and two year revenue growth of 16%. Comparable same-store sales grew 83% and importantly two year comp grew 10%. This is at the high end of our long-term annual comp growth target of 4% to 5%. We posted these results even with mobility restrictions still impacting some US geographies with industrywide pressure in pockets of the supply chain and with our in-store cafe seating not yet fully reopened. Not only have we posted incredible results as we emerge from the pandemic, our internal research also confirms Starbucks has gained meaningful market share in the US, and the momentum we have created is sustainable. In fact, Starbucks competitive share is the highest this year that has ever been in the away from home coffee and tea category. Simply put, our Green Apron partners are delivering an experience that customers are craving and the growing opportunities to serve our customers with the unmatched experience Starbucks offers, gives us resounding confidence in the strength of the brand and the growth potential ahead.One powerful example of innovation that is fueling our momentum is our beverage portfolio, which when coupled with our unparalleled ability for customizing handcrafted beverages, separates Starbucks from the competition. The investments we have made over the past few years, innovating and expanding our coffee forward cold beverage platform continue to boost sales and draw new customers to Starbucks. We continue to see strong demand for Starbucks Cold Brew, Nitro Cold Brew and Starbucks Refresher beverages, while ice shaken espresso alone contributed more than a third of the iced espresso growth in the quarter. The cold category represented 74% of beverage sales in Q3, growing 10 percentage points over the past two years. With a wide range of beverage options both cold and hot, our customers love personalizing their drinks. Over the last two years, we've seen a meaningful increase and customizations, such as adding Cold Foam or Shot of Espresso. Additionally alternative dairy offerings represent nearly 25% of milk related beverage sales, up from prior year. These innovative offerings in cold and alternative dairy are particularly attractive to millennial and Gen Z customers and are aligned with our focus on the well-being of people and the planet.With premium customization of beverages, coupled with operational improvements, the growth of both hot and cold beverages in stores is enabling margin expansion. Despite some continued inflationary pressures which Rachel will discuss in more detail. In addition to beverage platform innovation, extending the in-store experience with digital customer relationships continues to extend our reach, deepen engagement and enhance the customer experience, further differentiating Starbucks and offering customers ever increasing choice as to how they engage with the brand. We again added over a 1 million new active Starbucks Rewards members in the quarter, with over 24 million active members, now representing 51% of all spend in our US stores and up 8 percentage points over pre-pandemic levels, our ability to engage has never been higher. More and more of these customers are embracing experiences that effortlessly fit their lifestyle, with drive-thru representing 47% of transactions and mobile ordering for in-store pickup delivery or curbside at 26% of transactions. We are leveraging all channels to better serve our customers.While it is very clear that our Rewards program has accelerated our recovery in a meaningful way where Q3 really stands out and what adds to our confidence is the acceleration we saw in our non-rewards customers. While Rewards spend grew at a rapid mid-teens rate quarter-over-quarter, for the first time in 11 quarters non-rewards spend growth outpaced SR spend. This is further evidence of the great human reconnection. The rapid reengagement of non-rewards customers not only propelled our record results but also underscores the strength of the brand and the growth potential ahead.And finally, we continue to make meaningful progress to reposition our US store portfolio through trade area transformation which is now nearly 80% complete. In the past 12 months we have opened 554 new stores, combined with in-store seating and drive through service. This portfolio repositioning and new store formats have increased drive-thru performance to 75% of our total US sales. A number that continues to rise as we increase efficiency. The improvements and additions, we are making to our portfolio today will provide benefits for years to come. With our focus on the customer experience, new beverage innovation and digital customer relationships, we continue to increase share of customer occasions, while also contributing to a rapidly growing market for all things coffee.Moving on to China, where we posted a very positive result with year-on-year revenue growth of 45%. Remarkably total revenue in China has grown 23% in just two years as we continue to play the long game. And we are on track to open more than 600 net new stores this fiscal year. In Q3, alone, we opened 162 net new stores that continue to deliver best-in-class new store profitability and returns. We ended the quarter with 5,135 stores and we are well on track to operate over 6,000 stores by the end of fiscal year '22.In addition, we posted 19% same-store comp growth in Q3 and saw sequential acceleration of our two-year comp, when excluding the impact of value-added tax. Furthermore, we gained strong momentum with sequential improvement on every key metric on a two-year basis, including total revenue growth, store traffic recovery and margin expansion. The health of our business in China is strong and we've never been more confident in the long-term growth opportunity. In addition to significant new store growth and sequential acceleration of two-year comps in China, we are expanding digital customer relationships and engagement by creating new occasions and experiences that make mobile ordering even more convenient and personalized. This as resonated strongly with our customers in China propelling mobile ordering to 34% of sales, significantly higher than the 23% in the prior year and more than double pre-COVID levels. Starbucks Rewards continues to aggressively expand our digital ecosystem across major platforms, driving 90-day active members to an all-time high of $17 million, a 4% increase over previous quarter and a 71% increase versus prior year. Gold members, a very important cohort are engaging Starbucks at pre-pandemic levels.Our performance in China is a testimony to the unparalleled strength of the Starbucks brand and our enduring relationship with our Chinese customers. Our rapidly growing store footprint, market leading digital ecosystem and customer engagement, robust innovation pipeline and the enduring love and loyalty for the Starbucks brand in China are all unmatched. I have full confidence in the strength of the Starbucks brand in China and across all our international markets. There should be no misunderstanding of how big and robust our business in China is and will be. These are still early days and our strategies are clearly working. Starbucks is uniquely positioned for success in China well into the future.With phenomenal strength and growing momentum in our retail business, let me now move on to our Channel Development segment that also continues to exceed expectations. Over the past three years we have made significant progress, expanding our reach and amplifying the Starbucks brand through CPG, single serve coffee, ready-to-drink and foodservice. I attribute our success to the power of the Starbucks brand, the bold innovation that attracts new coffee lovers into our categories and the caliber of our strategic business partners globally. In Q3, Starbucks retained our number one brand position in total US At Home Coffee and further expanded our leadership position versus other brands. The Starbucks brand continued to increase share in the total US category, impressively adding 1 percentage point over the prior year, despite lapping a strong comp.The Global Coffee Alliance with Nestle as a powerhouse, and we continue to see strong performance across all aspects of the key strategic relationship. Earlier this year, building on the success of the Starbucks by Nespresso platform, we expanded and introduced Starbucks by Nespresso on the virtual line, which is already exceeding six month distribution and velocity targets. In addition, the combination of strong CPG performance combined with a steady recovery in foodservice, gives us added confidence. In ready-to-drink, Starbucks is the number one premium brand globally, with our North American coffee partnership with PepsiCo growing 19% in consumption and our International ready-to-drink business growing double-digits in EMEA and China, Asia Pacific. These channels amplify our brand in more than 80 markets around the world, offering millions of customers At-Home and At-Work options that complement their Starbucks in-store experience. And just yesterday, we announced plans to reach new markets and grow our Starbucks ready-to-drink portfolio with Nestle, who will now serve markets across Southeast Asia and Latin America. Our Channel Development Strategy to amplify the brand, while growing share of at-home occasions continues to attract new customers to Starbucks with unparalleled choice while driving best-in-class returns.The key take-away from today's call is this. We look to the future with as much conviction as ever in our strategy. As this quarter represents the beginning of a multi-year tailwind for Starbucks, that is powered by three factors. First, the total coffee addressable market is large and growing rapidly. The market is expected to grow to well over $400 billion in size globally over the next three years. That represents a compound annual growth rate of 8% to 9%, as the market rapidly recovers from the global pandemic. Second within this large and growing market, consumer preferences continue to shift from mainstream Robusta coffee to premium Arabica coffee, where Starbucks is the leader. Third, and perhaps most important, Starbucks is rapidly adapted to new consumer behaviors and strengthened key points of differentiation. Our focus on the customer experience, relevant new beverage platforms and expanded digital customer relationships are translating to increased consumer preference and deeper customer engagement. The combination of a highly differentiated brand experience, a continued consumer shift to premium Arabica coffee and a large and growing addressable market is a powerful trifecta that provides our business with a multi-year tailwind. These factors reinforced by the results of this past quarter, give us confidence that this is just the beginning of what is about to unfold.And with that I will turn the call over to Rachel, who will walk you through details of our Q3 results. Rachel?Rachel Ruggeri -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Kevin and good afternoon everyone. I'm thrilled to share with you the results of this milestone quarter, delivering record revenue and record non-GAAP EPS only four quarters after the depth of the pandemic. Over the past year, we have proven our ability to differentiate ourselves to the unique and personalized experiences we create for Starbucks customers, whether in our stores, through our app, or down the grocery aisle, leading to this quarter's impressive results. Starbucks global revenue reached $7.5 billion in Q3, up 78% from the prior year, far surpassing the pre-pandemic quarterly record set in Q1 fiscal '20 driven largely by the incredible performance in the US, our largest market.Q3 non-GAAP EPS was $1.01 up from the loss of $0.46 in the prior year driven by faster than expected margin recovery in the Americas due to sales leverage from lapping prior year COVID-19 impacts and the benefit from continued strength in average ticket. Our Q3 EPS includes $0.09 of benefit related to discrete tax items, most of which was originally anticipated in Q4 as referenced on our previous earnings call. The investments we've made in our business have made Starbucks stronger, more resilient and positioned for long-term growth. This powerful momentum, gives us the confidence to meaningfully raise our EPS outlook for the full year as I will explain later.I will now take you through our Q3 fiscal '21 operating performance by segment, followed by an analysis of our consolidated margin performance. Our Americas segment which fueled our record quarter, delivered revenue of $5.4 billion in Q3, 92% higher than the prior year primarily driven by an 84% increase in comparable store sales including 82% comp transaction growth. As Kevin mentioned, US comparable store sales growth reached 83% in Q3 driven by a material improvement in transaction comp of 88%. Average store transactions continued to grow and ended the quarter at nearly 90% of pre-pandemic levels, presenting further opportunity to return to and grow beyond FY '19 levels. As transactions have grown, we've maintained the strength in average ticket of 1% over the prior year, remaining significantly elevated as many key post pandemic consumer trends have continued. Growth in cold beverages and customization, coupled with sustained strong beverage attach and record food attach in Q3, all contributed to the strong ticket and give us confidence in our ability to maintain a meaningful portion of the ticket gains over the coming quarters.Americas Q3 non-GAAP operating margin expanded to 24.7%, up more than 200 basis points from Q3 of fiscal 2019, largely driven by sales leverage on our product and distribution costs including waste favorability, the benefits of SKU rationalization over the prior two years and favorable sales mix shift. Pricing and the benefits of trade area transformation also helped offset the sizable investments in wages and benefits as well as higher supply chain costs due to inflationary pressures. While we're thrilled with our margin performance in Q3, we expect it to moderate slightly in Q4, primarily due to the growing impact of inflation coupled with incremental investments critical to our continued growth, which I'll discuss in a moment.Moving on to International. The International segment delivered revenue of $1.7 billion in Q3, excluding a 10% favorable impact of foreign currency translation, the segment's revenue grew 65% over the prior year, reflecting a 41% increase in comparable store sales inclusive of a 5% adverse impact from lapping the prior year VAT benefit. Strong sales growth from our International licensees as well as 8% net new store growth over the prior -- over the past 12 months also contributed to this growth.Kevin spoke to our performance in China. In addition, the International segment performance was adversely impacted by virus resurgences in Japan with a state of emergency severely limiting consumer traffic during most of the quarter. It's important to remember that the vast majority of International markets in which we operate, are behind the US in terms of both vaccination and mobility. So revenue recovery is predictably lagging in those markets. Still, our partners in every market remained focused on what they can control and what they do best, the moments of connection, they are providing our customers during these challenging times will support growth as vaccination rates improve.International's non-GAAP operating margin rose to 22.5% from minus 2.7% in the prior year mainly driven by sales leverage from lapping the impacts of COVID-19 as well as store labor efficiencies across our company operated margin -- markets and larger government subsidies. On a two-year basis these temporary subsidies provide an approximately 200 basis point benefit in the quarter, boosting the segment's non-GAAP operating margin close to its pre-pandemic level of 22.7% in Q3 fiscal '19.On to Channel Development. Revenue was $414 million in Q3, a decline of 7% from the prior year, primarily driven by Global Coffee Alliance transition related activities, including a structural change in our single-serve business. When excluding the approximately 20% adverse impact of these transition related activities, Channel Development's revenue increased by 13% in Q3, mainly driven by growth in the Global Coffee Alliance product sales and our ready-to-drink business. The segment's non-GAAP operating margin expanded to 46.7% in Q3 from 35.6% in the prior year, normalizing for the 700 basis point impact of Global Coffee Alliance transition related activities I just mentioned, Channel Development's operating margin expanded 410 basis points in Q3 driven primarily by the strength of our ready-to-drink business. We expect the impacts from the transition to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal '21.Finally, at the consolidated level, our non-GAAP operating margin was 20.5% in Q3, up from minus 12.6% in the prior year. The year-over-year increase in our operating margin for Q3 was primarily driven by sales leverage across the P&L as we lapped COVID-19 impacts and related costs, as well as pricing in the Americas. These were partially offset by additional investments in retail store partner wages and benefits, which remain a strategic priority for us to support our world-class partners.Given the strength of our performance in Q3 and the optimism we have for the fourth quarter, we're pleased to update our guidance across a number of key areas. We expect the momentum we have seen in the US underpinned by the ongoing great human reconnection to continue, and as a result, we expect both Americas and US comparable store sales growth in Q4 in the range of 22% to 25%. This corresponds to a two-year comp range for Q4 of 11% to 13% reflecting further sequential improvement from an already strong level of 9% in the Americas in Q3. As a reminder, the two-year comps we are monitoring are calculated on a multiplicative basis instead of an additive basis as described in today's earnings release.For the International segment, where sporadic virus resurgences continue to impair consumer mobility in some markets, we now expect comparable store sales to grow mid to high single-digits in Q4. For China, we expect comparable store sales to be roughly flat in Q4. Similar to the Americas these ranges for both International and China translate to a meaningful sequential improvement in two-year comp from Q3 to Q4, despite the challenging market dynamics expected to linger in Q4. Based on the outlook for this segment, we now expect Q4 consolidated comp growth in the range of 18% to 21%. On a two-year basis, this equates to a range of 7% to 10% a considerable sequential increase from the Q3 two-year comp of 4%.Moving on to retail store development. Although we expect approximately 1,100 net new stores globally in fiscal '21, we now anticipate a slight shift between our segments. For the Americas, we now expect the total store count in fiscal '21 to remain roughly flat to prior year as the new store openings are virtually offset by higher than normal closures, reflecting the continued progress of our accelerated trade area transformation initiative. For International, net new stores for fiscal '21 are expected to increase to approximately 1,100 from 1,050 in the original guidance.With the updated comp sales and the store growth outlook, we are also tightening our guidance for full year fiscal '21 consolidated revenue to a new range of $29.1 billion to $29.3 billion from $28.5 billion to $29.3 billion. This includes Channel Development's revenue, which is now expected in the range of $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion for full year fiscal '21, compared to the previous guidance of $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion, reflecting this segment's strong performance to-date. As a reminder, our fiscal '21 consolidated revenue guidance range is inclusive of approximately $0.5 billion for the 53rd week.Additionally, given the faster than expected margin recovery to-date, we are raising our consolidated GAAP operating margin outlook for the full year to approximately 17%, up from the previous range of 15% to 16%. Our consolidated non-GAAP operating margin is now expected to reach approximately 18% in fiscal '21, up from the previous guidance of 16.5% to 17.5%, reflecting the momentum we saw in Q3 and expect in Q4. Our operating margin is tempered a bit by two factors that we see growing in relevance in Q4 and into fiscal '22. The first is our latest view on rising global inflation requiring continued incremental investments to support our growth. The second is our strong commitment to increasing wages of our store partners, making deliberate investments toward an hourly wage for $15 in the US, in line with the announcement we made in November of last year. As Kevin mentioned our Green Apron partners are fundamental to the Starbucks experience and are critical to our [Technical Issues] in terms of success. These important wage increases, coupled with continued investment in digital initiatives and operational efficiencies will further solidify the foundation for our next stage of growth.Given the accelerated timing of certain discrete tax benefits in Q3, I noted earlier, which were originally anticipated in Q4, we now forecast our Q4 non-GAAP effective tax rate to increase to the low 20% from our previous outlook of high teens. For fiscal '21, our GAAP and non-GAAP effective tax rates are expected in the low 20% range revised from the previous guidance of low to mid 20%.Summing this all up driven by the tremendous momentum we've seen as customers return to our stores propelling our record results in Q3, we are raising our full-year fiscal '21 EPS guidance. Our new fiscal '21 GAAP EPS guidance range is $2.97 to $3.02 up from $2.65 to $2.75 previously. Our fiscal '21 non-GAAP EPS is now expected to be in the range of $3.20 to $3.25, up from our prior range of $2.90 to $3.00. This predominantly reflects our better than expected performance to-date, as well as the improved outlook for Q4, barring any new significant and sustained waves of COVID-19 infections and any major economic disruptions. As a reminder, our fiscal '21 GAAP and non-GAAP EPS guidance ranges include approximately $0.10 of benefit for the 53rd week.Consistent with our past practice, we will provide guidance for fiscal '22 on our Q4 earnings call. However, I should note that the earlier than expected margin recovery we saw in Q3 and expect in Q4 was not contemplated when we provided our fiscal '22 EPS growth outlook at our December Investor Day. We are pleased with the strength of our business and we'll provide our FY '22 outlook during our Q4 call. Importantly, our ongoing commitment to the double-digit non-GAAP EPS growth at scale remain strongly intact.To summarize, Q3 performance exceeded our expectations with record revenue and earnings, underscoring the resilience and power of our brand, which remains as relevant as ever. While temporary marketplace dynamics will impact our business until the global pandemic is behind us, the enduring strength of the Starbucks experience, fueled by our incredible partners around the globe remains intact thriving in this moment of human reconnection and continuing to guide our long-term growth. As always the credit for our success this quarter and in the future belongs to our Starbucks partners around the world who proudly wear the Green Apron. They have our greatest respect and appreciation.And with that, Kevin and I are happy to take your questions, joined by John Culver; Michael Conway; and Belinda Wong. Thank you. Operator?