  OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the first quarter 2022 Akamai Technologies earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I'd now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Tom Barth, head of investor relations. Please go ahead.Tom Barth -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining Akamai's first quarter 2022 earnings call. Speaking today will be Tom Leighton, Akamai's chief executive officer; and Ed McGowan, Akamai's chief financial officer. Please note that today's comments include forward-looking statements, including statements regarding revenue and earnings guidance.

 



 These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. These factors include any impact from macroeconomic trends, uncertainty stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic, the integration of any acquisitions and any impact from geopolitical developments. Additional information concerning these factors is contained in Akamai's filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements included in this call represent company's view on May 3, 2022.Akamai disclaims any obligation to update these statements to reflect new information, future events or circumstances except as required by law. As a reminder, we will be referring to some non-GAAP financial metrics during today's call. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP metrics can be found under the financial portion of the Investor Relations section at akamai.com. And with that, let me turn the call over to Tom. Tom Leighton -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Tom. And thank you all for joining us today. Our Q1 revenue was $904 million, up 7% year over year and up 9% in constant currency. This solid result was driven by the continued rapid growth of our security and compute businesses.

 



 Q1 non-GAAP operating margin was 30%. Q1 non-GAAP EPS was a $1.39 per diluted share, up 1% year over year and up 4% in constant currency. As Ed will discuss later, EPS came in at the low end of our guidance range, primarily due to an adverse tax impact of $0.03. Since our last call with you on February 15, we've seen the development of several major global events and financial headwinds. It's remarkable how quickly the world has changed with the war in Ukraine, the significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar, escalating inflation, increasing concerns about a recession and a moderation of internet traffic growth, as many countries remove mask mandates. Since these developments are all fairly recent, they had a relatively small impact on our Q1 results, but it's prudent to assume that they'll impact our results more meaningfully for the rest of the year. For example, at current spot rates, the strengthening dollar will adversely impact full year 2022 revenue by about a $100 million. About $55 million of that impact has come since we issued guidance on February 15. As we disclosed in our 8-K filing on March 7, about 1% of our revenue comes from Russian companies or is derived from delivering traffic into Russia. We have since terminated our business with several majority state-owned Russian companies and our traffic delivered into Russia and Ukraine on behalf of other global customers has declined dramatically since the war began. As a result, it's reasonable to assume that we will no longer generate most of the revenue that had been associated with Russian and Ukraine. Lastly, data from some of our large customers in the media and commerce verticals suggest that they may be transitioning from an environment of above normal online consumption, fueled by COVID-related restrictions to an environment with more macroeconomic uncertainty, which could moderate their traffic growth in the near term. Discussions with many of our large carrier partners across the world have reinforced the view that traffic growth rates may be moderating across the internet as a whole. In particular, they've told us that they've recently seen a moderation in their year-over-year traffic growth, and that the current levels of traffic on their network are less than what they'd expected. This is consistent with what we've recently seen.

 



 Traffic is still growing at a fast pace on the Akamai platform, but at a more moderate pace than we've observed over the last few years. As a result of these largely external factors and to be conservative in our outlook, we feel it's prudent to lower our expectations for the full year. Ed will provide more detail shortly. That said, and this is important to emphasize, Akamai's business continues to be very strong and highly profitable. Traffic growth on our platform remains substantial. And the data we've received from customers and carrier partners indicates that our market share remains stable or is modestly increasing. In addition, our customer churn levels continue to be at record lows. Lost annual revenue from churned accounts in Q1 amounted to less than one half of 1% of total annual revenue. And churn due to competitors was much less than half of that already small amount. As a result, our market leading delivery business continues to generate substantial cash and to power our unique edge platform. Our security business has reached an annual revenue run rate of over $1 billion and continues to grow over 20% annually in constant currency. And we believe that our compute business is poised to achieve about $400 million in revenue this year with a growth rate of over 60%. And perhaps most important of all the combination of our security and compute businesses now represents the majority of our revenue. We expect these businesses to generate about $2 billion of revenue this year with a growth rate of about 27% in constant currency. I'll now talk about each of our three major business lines, starting with security, which we believe will soon become our largest business line. Our security solutions generated revenue of $382 million in Q1, one up 23% year-over-year and up 26% in constant currency. This very strong growth was driven primarily by our flagship security products, Kona Site Defender and Bot Manager. And also by our new Guardicore micro-segmentation solution to stop ransomware. In Q1, we finalized the largest deal in Guardicore's history, valued it more than $10 million over the next three years, expanding our longtime relationship with one of the largest banks in the world. The size and scope of the deal illustrates why we're so excited about our opportunity in micro segmentation. Financial services firms in particular are frequent targets of ransomware and malware and large banks with security risks, face financial penalties from regulators if they fail to address them. So from a compliance perspective, adopting micro segmentation can reduce risk and prevent large fines in the process. By reducing spending on their legacy static firewalls, the bank that's adopting our micro segmentation solution will free up resources to implement stronger defenses as they move to a new zero trust security architecture. And by converting to our more flexible software-based solution, they can achieve greater agility to compete with fast moving FinTech services. This example demonstrates how Guardicore can help Akamai expand longtime relationships with customers to become a more valuable strategic partner in the future. Guardicore is also helping us win new accounts and verticals such as critical infrastructure. For example, one of the largest railroads in the world recently became a multimillion dollar Guardicore customer. On April 20, cybersecurity authorities in the U.S. and other major countries warned that the war in Ukraine raises the risk of cyber attacks. Their recommended defenses aligned well to Akamai security solutions from microsegmentation, DDoS protection and web app firewall. Web application attacks experienced by customers grew by nearly 200% year over year in Q1. The largest increase we've seen in several years, web app attacks are a critical vulnerability for any company moving to the cloud, building microservices or integrating third parties via APIs, which is why app and API protection is a critical priority for major enterprises. Akamai is a leader in Gartner's Magic Quadrant for Web App and API Protection. And in Q1, Akamai's web app and API protection on Gartner Peer Insights Customers Choice Distinction for the third year in a row, also in Q1, Forrester named Akamai a leader in its New Wave for Microsegmentation. As we discussed during our last call with investors in February, we will be reporting on our delivery and compute product lines separately, going forward. In Q1, our delivery products generated revenue of $444 million, down 6% year over year and down 4% in constant currency. Revenue for our compute product group was $78 million in Q1, up 32% year-over-year and up 35% in constant currency. As I mentioned earlier, traffic on our platform has been growing at a substantial rate. In fact, just last week, we set another record when we delivered over 250 terabits per second of peak traffic, more than 20% higher than our previous peak reached in February. The Akamai Edge platform continues to be the top choice for large media companies worldwide due to its unique scale and performance. In a recent review of CDN vendors worldwide, IDC said Akamai's balanced and comprehensive portfolio spanning media and web delivery, emerging edge applications, extensive security capabilities, and programmable edge addresses the needs of all enterprise segments and the developer community. The report also noted how Akamai's appetite for innovation is showcased by the fact that it continues to expand its services and capabilities beyond CDN to address new areas. Akamai is the market leader in delivery by far, and the income generated by our delivery business helps to fund our investments in the fast growing areas of security and compute, including our game changing acquisitions of Guardicore and Linode. Our compute product group includes Akamai's capabilities in compute, storage, cloud optimization, developer tools, edge applications, and now Linode, which joined Akamai on March 21. We are encouraged by how customers and industry analysts have responded to our acquisition of Linode. In fact, several of used the word transformational to sum up the potential impact of our combination of the marketplace, the CEO and co-founder of Macrometa, Linode partner that enables web and cloud developers to run and scale data heavy real-time cloud applications has called Akamai's acquisition of Linode, a watershed moment for the cloud because it fundamentally reconfigures the landscape in many ways. Those are his words and he says that Akamai provides that layer of reach and distribution in a way that cloud providers are very challenged to be able to do. I'm excited about that he said. Of course, we're excited too. Linode was an early pioneer in creating the market for alternative clouds, offering developers a platform to build new applications in ways that are simple to use and affordable. With high performance, a competitive, transparent, and predictable price points and backed by strong customer support after the sale. Today, nearly three quarters of enterprises are pursuing multi-cloud strategies, which means that new workloads will be cloud agnostic and portable, free to move and choose the best place to be. In fact, IDC just issued a report on workload deployment optimization that urges buyers to consider suppliers of Infrastructure-as-a-Service beyond the hyperscalers. Our acquisition of Linode was the first alternative IDC highlighted as an example that can offer better cost and performance while retaining the level of redundancy and coverage demanded by enterprises. In the coming years, we expect that customers will have a growing need for a continuum of compute from the cloud to the edge, to be closer where billions of end users are and where tens of billions of connected devices will be, especially as 5G and IoT take hold and grow. Building the bridge that enables developers to move from the cloud to the edge and have one place to build, run and secure apps is a key reason why we're expanding our offering with Linode. At our Analyst Day, coming up on May 18, we'll talk more about the potential for substantial future growth in this new and exciting part of Akamai's portfolio. As we become the cloud company that powers and protects life online. The soundness of our overall strategy was validated in visits I had with dozens of Akamai customers across EMEA and APJ last month. Common concerns expressed by customers and prospects included the war in Ukraine, the heightened level of cyber attacks, as well as risk to trade and supply chains, energy costs, and currency evaluations. Customers express very strong interest in our security strategy and Guardicore, in particular. As you can imagine, their boards are asking them how they can prevent a crippling ransomware attack. And Guardicore is the perfect solution. They know that malware always finds a way in, the key is identifying it and stopping it spread before it can cause serious damage. And that's exactly what Guardicore is designed to do. Most of the customers I met with, were also interested in exploring our cloud compute offering as a more affordable and easier way to build, run, and secure their new applications. The tight labor market, employee attrition, and the desire of employees to work remotely were also top of mind for customers in every location. Several companies that I met with are reducing their real estate footprint. And one of them told me they could only do this because they secured their remote work environments with Akamai's enterprise application access. Here at Akamai, we face the same macro trends as our customers, but in spite of the headwinds, we feel good about the growing demand from customers for our security and compute solutions, the expertise of our team in the addition of capabilities and talent from Guardicore and Linode. And how all of this gives Akamai not one, but two, rapidly growing and highly synergistic businesses, further diversifying our revenue, we've also performed well on the retention of our talent, employees appreciate our flexible workplace policy and culture of teamwork.Akamai scores very high on third-party rankings of the Best Places to Work. I'm proud of the way that our employees have managed. And I want to thank our extended team around the world for doing such a great job for our customers. They are truly making life better for billions of people, billions of times a day. Now over to Ed for more on Q1 and our outlook for Q2 and the rest of the year. Ed?Ed McGowan -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Tom. As Tom mentioned, Akamai delivered a solid quarter in Q1. Q1 revenue is $904 million, up 7% year-over-year, or 9% in constant current currency. Revenue was led by continued strong growth in security and compute. The strength was partially offset by a significant strengthening U.S. dollar and a slight moderation in traffic growth rate in our delivery business during the last month of the quarter. security revenue grew 23% year over year and 26% in constant currency, led by a reacceleration of growth in our application security business and continued very strong performance from Guardicore. Security represented 42% of total revenue in Q1, which is up 5 points from Q1 a year ago. Guardicore delivered revenue of $19 million in the quarter, included in our Guardicore results was approximately $7 million of term license deals from four customers. As a reminder, while the majority of Guardicore deals are Software as a Service and revenue is recognized monthly under ASC 606, some customers specifically financial services and healthcare due from time to time require on-premise deployments. These deployments result in term license accounting treatment, where we are required to recognize a significant portion of the revenue upfront when the product is delivered for spreading the revenue over the contract term. It's worth noting the impact of these deals resulted in a pull forward from Q2 to Q4 into Q1 of approximately one percentage point of revenue growth. compute revenue in Q1 was $78 million and grew 32% year over year and 35% in constant currency. As Tom mentioned, we were very pleased with the initial performance of our Linode acquisition, which closed in late March and contributed revenue of approximately $3.5 million in Q1. Delivery revenue was $444 million in Q1 and decline 6% year over year and 4% in constant currency. As discussed last quarter, several of our top customers are expected to renew in the first half of 2022. Our first quarter revenue was impacted by the renewals of half of these customers, we expect the remaining customers to renew by July 1. So far, the pricing for the renewals has been in line with our expectations. Additionally, we started to notice the growth rate of traffic on our network moderate a bit in March, specifically in gaming and OTT verticals. As some pandemic related restrictions were lifted in countries throughout the world. Sales in our international markets represented 47% of total revenue in Q1. International revenue grew 11% year over year or 16% in constant currency. The negative impact of foreign exchange on our Q1 results increased by approximately $2 million from our February earnings call as a U.S. dollar continued to strengthened significantly in March. Foreign exchange fluctuations had a negative impact on revenue of $4 million on a sequential basis and negative $18 million on a year-over-year basis. Finally, revenue from our U.S. market was $481 million and grew 4% year over year. Now moving on to costs. Cash gross margin was 76% in line with our expectations. GAAP gross margin, which includes both depreciation and stock-based compensation was 63%. Non-GAAP cash operating expenses were $295 million. Now moving on to profitability. Adjusted EBITDA was $391 million. Our adjusted EBITDA margin was 43% in line with our guidance. Non-GAAP operating income was $270 million and non-GAAP operating margin was 30%. Capital expenditures in Q1, excluding equity compensation and capitalized interest expense were $116 million. This was slightly better than our guidance range as we continued to see greater efficiency on our network. GAAP net income for the first quarter was $119 million or $0.73 of earning per diluted share. Non-GAAP net income was $225 million or $1.39 of earnings per diluted share, up 1% year over year and up 4% in constant currency. Non-GAAP earnings per share was negatively impacted by approximately $0.03 in Q1 due to a higher than expected non-GAAP effective tax rate. Taxes included in our non-GAAP earnings were $43 million based on a Q1 effective tax rate of approximately 16%. This was approximately 1.5 points higher than we had expected in due primarily to three reasons. First, a higher than expected mix of U.S. revenue with foreign exchange rate fluctuations, a significant contributing factor along with the addition of Linode revenue. Second, an unfavorable change to foreign tax credits in Q1 based on the most recent treasury guidance. And third, a refinement of our previous assumptions related to R&D tax launching changes from the 2017 U.S. tax reform that became effective in Q1 2022.Moving now to cash in our use of capital. As of March our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $1.3 billion. During the first quarter, we spent approximately $103 million repurchase shares, buying back approximately 900,000 shares. In addition to share repurchases in March, we spent approximately $900 million to complete our acquisition of Linode. We ended Q1 with approximately $1.7 billion remaining on our current repurchase authorization. Our intention is to continue to buy back shares to offset dilution from employee equity programs over time, and to be opportunistic in both M&A and share repurchases. Before I provide our Q2 and 2022 guidance, I want to highlight several factors. First, our guidance now includes Linode. We expect Linode to contribute revenue of approximately $100 million and add approximately $0.05 to $0.06 to non-GAAP EPS in 2022. This is unchanged from the assumptions we shared on our last call. Second, the dollar has continued to strengthen meaningfully since we reported in mid-February. As a result, we currently expect a much greater foreign exchange headwind for the remainder of 2022. At current spot rates, our guidance assumes that foreign exchange will have a negative $100 million impact on revenue on a year-over-year basis. This compares to our prior guidance of a negative $45 million impact to revenue. This change in FX from our prior guide will also negatively impact non-GAAP EPS by approximately $0.16 for the a full year 2022. It's worth emphasizing that currency markets have been extremely unsettled and about as volatile as I have ever seen, as a result, it is impossible to predict whether and how the impact could change going forward. Third, we now expect our non-GAAP effective tax rate for 2022 to be approximately 16%, which is a approximately 1.5 points higher than our prior assumption. Based on the items I mentioned before, the change in tax rate will also negatively impact the full year 2022 non-GAAP EPS by approximately $0.11. Fourth, as Tom discussed, regarding our business in Russia and Ukraine is reasonable to assume that most of that revenue goes away. Finally, as mentioned earlier, our traffic growth rate moderated a bit in March, and we've seen that trend continue in April. While traffic continues to grow at a strong rate and as at record levels, the growth rate is lower than we originally expected. Therefore, we are taking a more conservative approach to forecasting our traffic and corresponding revenue for the remainder of the year. That said, we do not believe this trend is a permanent consumer shift or due to us losing share, but rather is likely driven by some of the significant external factors we are seeing in the marketplace and geopolitically. Said another way, we believe that traffic growth and online activity return to more historical norms at some point. So with all those factors in mind, turning to our Q2 guidance. We are now projecting revenue in the range of $890 million to $905 million or up 4% to 6% as reported or 8% to 10% in constant currency over Q2 2021. Foreign exchange fluctuations are expected to have a negative $14 million impact on Q2 revenue compared to Q1 levels and a negative $30 million impact year over year. At these revenue levels, we expect cash gross margins of approximately 75%. Q2 non-GAAP operating expenses are projected to be $282 million to $289 million. We anticipate Q2 EBITDA margins of approximately 43%. We expect non-GAAP depreciation expense to be between $129 million to $130 million. And we expect non-GAAP operating margin to decline to approximately 29% for Q2 to largely to the change in FX and some node integration costs. Moving now to capex, we expect to spend approximately $150 million to $155 million, excluding equity compensation and capitalized interest in the second quarter. This represents approximately 17% of projected total revenue. A significant portion of the increase in the spend this quarter is related to Linode, an anticipation of significant demand. With the overall revenue and spend configuration I just outlined, we expect Q2 non-GAAP EPS from the range of $1.28 to $1.33. This EPS guidance assumes taxes, the $40 million to $41 million based on an estimated quarterly non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 16%. It also reflects a fully diluted share count of approximately 162 million shares. Looking ahead to the full year, we now expect revenue of $3.62 billion to $3.67 billion, which is up 5% to 6% year over year as reported, we're up 7% to 9% in constant currency. We expect security revenue to grow at least 20% or greater for full year 2022 in constant currency. We now estimate non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 29% based primarily on the impact of FX and some of the internet traffic dynamics I previously discussed. We now estimate non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $5.32 to $5.44. This non-GAAP earnings guidance is based on a non-GAAP effective tax rate of approximately 16%, a fully diluted share count of approximately 161 million shares. Finally, full-year capex is anticipated to be approximately 14% of revenue. It is worth noting, our capex assumption now includes Linode that we talked about on our last quarter, partially offset by lower network capex, given the slower traffic growth rate that we now project. In closing, while the macroeconomic environment has become more challenging since our last earnings call and the U.S. dollar continues to be a major headwind for us. We remain very optimistic about the opportunities in front of us, especially in security and compute. As Tom mentioned, I look forward to seeing you at our Analyst Day in New York City on May 18. Thank you. Tom and I would be happy to take your questions. Operator? 