
OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q2 2021 Teradyne Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Andy Blanchard.Andrew Blanchard -- Vice President Corporate Relations

 



Thank you, Phyllis. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results. I'm joined this morning by our CEO, Mark Jagiela; and our CFO, Sanjay Mehta. Following our opening remarks, we'll provide details of our performance for 2021's second quarter along with our outlook for the third quarter of 2021. The press release containing our second quarter results was issued last evening. We're providing slides on the Investor page of the website that may be helpful to you when following the discussion. Replays of this call will be available via the same page after the call ends. Matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. We encourage you to review the safe harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings. Additionally, those forward-looking statements are made as of today, and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call. During today's call, we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures. We've posted additional information concerning those non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, where available, on the Investor page of our website. Looking ahead between now and our next earnings call, Teradyne expects to participate in technology or industrial-focused investor conferences hosted by KeyBanc, Rosenblatt Securities, Deutsche Bank and Citi. Now let's get on with the agenda. First, Mark will comment on our recent results and the market conditions as we enter the new quarter. Sanjay will then offer more details on our quarterly results along with our guidance for the third quarter.We'll then answer your questions, and this call is scheduled for one hour. Mark?Mark E. Jagiela -- Chief Executive Officer and President of TeradyneGood morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Today, I'll summarize our results for the second quarter and first half of 2021, update on current conditions in both Test and Industrial Automation, and comment on our view for the second half of the year. Sanjay will then provide the financial details on the quarter and our guidance for Q3. The strong demand we saw in Q1 accelerated in Q2 as both our Test and Industrial Automation groups grew substantially in the quarter. The long-term demand drivers we've discussed in the past continue to power demand for our products. In Test, it's device complexity and unit growth; in Automation, it's labor scarcity, the need for resiliency and productivity improvement. Opening further, performance at the company level from 2016 through 2020 saw our sales and non-GAAP EPS grow at a compounded rate of 16% and 32%, respectively. For the first half of this year, sales are running ahead of that rate at 21%, and non-GAAP earnings per share grew at 29% compared with last year. This demonstrates both the vitality of the markets we serve and the efficiency of our operating model. Significantly, in Q2, we saw Industrial Automation demand recover in all major regions, but particularly in North America. As a result, our production and operating teams operated at a high pace in Q2, and that pace is increasing in Q3. For the year, our IA business is on track to grow about 30% from 2019 and about 40% from 2020. Looking closely at the segment level. In Semi Test, SOC shipments grew 29% in Q2 from Q2 of 2020 with particular strength in both the compute and mobility end markets. For the first half, SOC sales grew 19%. For the first time in several years, smartphone unit shipments are helping growth in the mobility segment, where as recent years have mostly relied on complexity growth. IA and compute are the two largest subsegments in SOC. Automotive, analog and industrial demand continues to be strong.

 



The auto-related semi test market is expected to exceed $500 million this year, the highest level since 2017. This is despite the fact that automobile unit production will be about lower in 2017 -- lower than 2017. A portion of this strength is test equipment. We're also seeing the impact of increased semi content and complexity per automobile, driving the test market. Our memory test shipments also grew in Q2 from Q2 of 2020, up 9%, led by flash tester demand. For the six-month period, overall shipments were up 18% from last year on solid demand for both flash wafer and flash systems. This reflects significant growth in smartphone demand, the build-out of new memory capacity in China and the growth of SSD demand. Looking at the full year, we are again revising up the SOC market for 2021 to now be in the range of $4.3 billion to $4.7 billion with increasing strength in the x86 GPU and display driver segments. Recall that we have lower customer exposure in those markets with much of this incremental growth going to our competitors. So we'll likely see our SOC share around 48% for the year. In memory, at the macro level, our market estimates are unchanged with the test market this year expected to be about $1 billion and our share to be at about the 40% level. I will note that the expected ramp of DDR5 for server applications and the broader adoption of LPDDR5 is pushing out into 2022. Shifting to our System Test group, sales were up 26% in the first half compared with 2020, with strong Storage Test demand and a recovery in our Production Board Test unit driving the growth. For the full year, we see System Test group -- the System Test group grow in the 10% to 20% range. At LitePoint, sales in Q2 were up 12% over 2Q 2020. While 5G millimeter wave demand is lower than expected, the environment in Wireless Test is improving as we move through the year due to the continued WiFi six growth and early WiFi seven investments. In addition, ultrawideband adoption is increasing, adding a new growth vector for LitePoint. For the full year, LitePoint will likely grow in the 10% range. Moving on to Industrial Automation.The combination of expanding demand across our major markets and the increase in the range of tests served by our Universal Robots and MiR units drove group sales up 57% in Q2 last year to 45% in the first half. Compared to pre-pandemic 2019, first half sales are up 22%. Supply chain issues have constrained growth a little bit with lead times pushing out about one week. The demand environment for IA has recovered in most regions from last year's slowdown. America was the fastest-growing major region in Q2 with sales up over 90% from last year. Although we did see a lull in some countries in Asia where COVID has spiked in recent months, the second half of the year outlook is quite strong in all our major regions. Our long-term growth strategy in IA continues unchanged, and we expect long-term annual growth in the 20% to 35% range. This year, we will likely have a growth of about 40% from 2020, and we will continue to invest to enable this growth, target 15% gross margins, get a 5% to 15% operating margin during these high-growth years. From an investment perspective, we are expanding our engineering programs to shorten deployment times, increase the served market and improve the customer support experience. We are also growing our capacity to support distributors, integrators and UR plus and MiRGo apps development partners as they engage customers. We are also expanding our sales to OEMs that integrate our robots into their products. Last quarter, we noted the expanding range of applications for UR robots into high-voltage line application with hundreds of [Indecipherable] being deployed. Today, I'd like to highlight the success of UR+ plug-and-play applications for Industrial Automation..There is a long-standing and chronic shortage of qualified welders worldwide with an estimated 100,000 unfilled welding jobs in the U.S. alone.While automated solutions exist for large applications like auto manufacturing, customers with lower volume and higher mix products are not well served by traditional automation. The integration of a force torque sensor into e-Series cobots enabled the precision needed for this application. And with UR+ integrating with our partners, we began serving this market about three years ago. During this time, welding applications have grown to be about 6% of our global sales and are on [Indecipherable] 1,000 cobots sold in 2021, more than tripling our 2020 pace. As we continue to extend the performance of our UR platform, we expect these high applications had growth vectors to traditional industrial applications. We have similar market-expanding initiatives in play on our MiR platform, but I'll save those details for a future call. Summing it all up, the first half of the year has been a strong sales, strong gross margins and earnings growth [Indecipherable]. Longer term, the markets we serve are showing increasing demand in a future global economy. The importance, pervasiveness and enabling capability of electronics in every aspect of our lives and industry is driving more fab investment, more complexity and more test. Likewise, the broadening application and fast ROI of collaborative robots in a world with labor shortages and productivity challenges is another growth trend. Strategically, we positioned ourselves in line with [Indecipherable] and plan to continue to make [Indecipherable] Test and IA as our full potential while driving world-class returns. While the rate of change in our markets is accelerating, we are well positioned to thrive as a company and to bring additional value to customers and shareholders.I'll now turn things over to Sanjay to provide additional color on the financials.

 



Sanjay Mehta -- Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Mark. Good morning, everyone. Today, I'll provide details on our Q2 results, comment on current business conditions and describe our outlook for Q3. Now to Q2. Second quarter sales were $1.086 billion with non-GAAP EPS of $1.91, up 29% and 44%, respectively, from Q2 '20. Non-GAAP gross margins were 59.6%, and our non-GAAP operating expenses were $250 million, but $5 million below the high guidance due to the timing of some nonrecurring engineering expenses. Non-GAAP operating profit rate was 36.5%. Gross margin in the quarter was 59.6% compared with our plan of 58%. The increase was tied to favorable product mix in the quarter versus planned. For context, Q2 2020 gross margin was approximately [Indecipherable]. In April [Indecipherable] earnings, we noted that this level of gross margin would continue in the near term, driven by the introduction of several key test systems in early 2020, which would take several quarters to come down the cost curve. These new product introductions, coupled with heightened costs driven by COVID shortages, were impacting our gross margins in 2020. One year later, we have now most of these test solutions at volume, and they have come down the cost curve as expected. The result contributed to higher margins in the second quarter, which we expect will continue in the second half of the year. A component of gross margin improvement over 2020 is higher revenue yielding of leverage in the gross margin line. We had one 10% customer in the quarter [Indecipherable] excluding discrete items of 14.5% on both GAAP and non-GAAP basis. Looking at the results from a business unit perspective. Semi Test revenue of $834 million was up 27% from Q2 2020. SOC revenue was $742 million, up 29%, driven by strength in compute, mobility, industrial and automotive. Memory revenue was $92 million, up 9% from prior year, driven by strength in flash test and flash wafer sort segments.System Test group had revenue of $105 million, which was up 46% year-over-year. This is driven by $58 million in Storage Test sales, including both HDD and SLT solutions; $27 million in Defense & Aerospace and Production Board Test. In Storage Test, HDD and SLT demand remains robust as drive densities continue to increase and the number of devices adopting SLT spokes. At LitePoint, revenue of $55 million was 12% -- was up 12% from prior year due to continued strength at WiFi, increases in [Indecipherable] and ultrawide band test market segments. Now to Industrial Automation. As we did in April, I'll provide revenue metrics comparing Q2 '21 results with both Q2 '20 and Q2 '19, so you'll have the full context given the impact of a contracting market tied to COVID last year. Industrial Automation revenue of $92 million was up 57% year-over-year and 23% over Q2 '19. Revenue expanded in all regions in Q2 over last year, with North America delivering the highest absolute revenue growth. U.S. and Europe represented about 77% of IA revenue in the quarter, with China contributing about 14%. UR sales were $76 million in Q2, up 75% year-over-year and 80% over 2019. MiR sales were $16 million, up 41% from Q2 '20 and 51% from Q2 '19. Recall, MiR had an [Indecipherable] on Q2 '20 as its robots were widely deployed in automated COVID disinfectant applications. The longer-term outlook in our IA business continues to brighten. We expect continued labor shortages to drive new applications for both our fixed and mobile robots. Mark highlighted the shortage of welders and how that has opened up a new market for our UR cobots, but that is just one of many job categories with acute short-term and long-term labor shortages. Our strategy is to provide an open platform that creative developers can leverage to solve industry-specific labor shortages.The numerous filling ultraviolet disinfecting solutions built on our platform last year is a shining example of the agility of our partner networks to solve problems. We're investing in engineering support and marketing resources to make our MiR platforms even easier to build upon, which will enable the continued proliferation of high-value automated solutions to solve challenging problems for an expanding range of customers. Significantly, these development partners and customers provide great feedback on our R&D development plans. From a financial perspective, we expect IA will operate around the low end of our target profit range of 5% and 15%. We do expect IA to operate above the Rule of 40 in 2021, that is the sum of operating profit and revenue growth of over 40%. Longer term, when growth moderates, we expect the IA group to have a similar operating profit rate as our Test portfolio. Shifting to supply. We continue to manage through numerous supply constraints along with increased material, manufacturing and logistics costs in both our Test and IA businesses. For some products in both Test and IA, the supply constraints have extended our lead times, and we're working closely with customers to minimize the impact of these delays. But we've been able to offset these higher costs through operating leverage with higher volumes and other cost-saving measures, so the cost increase impact on the P&L has not been material. We do expect to be dealing with supply line-related issues in Q3 and Q4 this year, which are reflected in our forecasts. Shifting to the balance sheet and cash flow. Our cash and marketable securities at the end of the quarter totaled $1.42 billion, $172 million of free cash flow in the quarter, $151 million and $17 million on buybacks and dividends, respectively. Year-to-date, we've repurchased 1.6 million shares for $197 million at an average price of $125.69 per share.Regarding our convertible debt. $15.6 million was paid in Q2 to convertible bondholders ahead of maturity. By the end of August 2021, bondholders will have early converted a total of $302 million, leaving a face value of $58 million outstanding. Looking at our operating model, I'd like to make three quick points. First, our performance over time. From 10 years ago, our gross margin percent has expanded from the low to mid-50s to nearly 60% today and our operating margin from the teens to low 20s to greater than 30% today. Second, our flexible business model shifts fixed cost to variable costs where appropriate through contract or outsourced manufacturing, variable compensation and other means, which enables resiliency on the downside and is creative when business is strong. Third, the operating leverage in the model is evident in our Q2 results. Our Test businesses are dropping through over $0.50 per revenue dollar through to the profit line in 2021...Operator[Technical Issues]Sanjay Mehta -- Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThank you.Andrew Blanchard -- Vice President Corporate RelationsLadies and gentlemen, we're going to have a quick transition.Sanjay Mehta -- Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerI'll go back -- OK, it's Sanjay again. I'll go back to looking at our operating model. I'd like to make three quick points. First, our performance over time from 10 years ago, our gross margin percent has expanded from low to mid-50s to nearly 60% today and our operating margin from the teens to low 20s to greater than 30% today. Second, our flexible business model shifts fixed cost to variable costs, where appropriate, through contract or outsourced manufacturing, variable compensation and other means, which enables resiliency on the downside and is accretive when business is strong. Third, the operating leverage in the model is evident in our Q2 results. Our Test businesses are dropping through over $0.50 per revenue dollar through to the profit line in 2021, even while we continue to increase our R&D support -- and support investments to strengthen our Test business. This enables Teradyne to continue to invest in both our Test and IA portfolios. For IA, we are building a deeper product ecosystem and distribution differentiation while achieving the Rule of 40 in our IA portfolio. Now to our outlook for Q3. As Mark noted, the demand environment across the business remains strong. Our guidance assumes no significant changes, positive or negative, in the availability of materials and also assumes that we won't see additional pandemic-related issues. With that said, sales in Q3 are expected to be between $880 million and $960 million with non-GAAP EPS in the range of $1.29 to $1.55 and 176 million diluted shares. Third quarter guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and noncash imputed interest on convertible debt.Third quarter gross margins are estimated to be between 59% and 60%. opex is expected to run at 27% to 29% of third quarter sales. The non-GAAP operating profit at the midpoint of our third quarter guidance is 32%. Regarding opex for the full year. While we spent a bit lower than planned in Q2, we expect the full year opex will be about in line with the plan we described in April. We expect total operating expenses for 2021 to be about $1 billion or up approximately 19% from 2020. We recognize that we're on track to meet our 2024 earnings model this year. We'll update the model on a regular cadence in January after our detailed midterm plan income is complete in Q4 this year. In summary, our businesses are performing extremely well, delivering strong revenue and earnings growth while funding the investments that will drive future success. Our first half sales grew 21%, and non-GAAP EPS grew 29% above the first half of 2020, which itself was a record. We expect to deliver the highest Q3 sales and profits in history. Our employees and production partners around the world have delivered a record number of systems under challenging conditions. Our support teams have done whatever was needed to make our customers successful. And our engineering teams have kept the new product pipeline moving on schedule. It's been an impressive display of teamwork, and I'm proud to be part of this powerful Teradyne team.With that, I'll turn things back to Andrew.Andrew Blanchard -- Vice President Corporate RelationsThanks, Sanjay. And everybody, thanks for dealing with our small technical issue there. Phyllis, we would now like to take some questions. [Operator Instructions]