  OperatorGood afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining DocuSign's first-quarter fiscal '22 earnings conference call. As a reminder, this call is being recorded and will be available for replay from the investor relations section of the website following the call. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator instructions] I will now pass the call over to Annie Leschin, head of investor relations. Please go ahead.Annie Leschin -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to DocuSign's first-quarter fiscal '22 earnings conference call. On the call today, we have DocuSign's CEO, Dan Springer; and CFO, Cynthia Gaylor. The press release announcing our first-quarter results was issued earlier today and is posted on our investor relations website, along with our quarterly slides. We plan to post prepared remarks on the site beginning next quarter. Before we get started, I'd like to let everyone know that we plan to participate virtually in a few upcoming events. These include Evercore's TMT Conference on June 7, Bank of America's 2021 Global Tech Conference on June 9, and Baird's 2021 Global Consumer, Tech, and Services Conference on June 10.As other events come up, we'll make additional announcements. Now, let me remind everyone that some of our statements on today's call are forward-looking. We believe our assumptions and expectations related to these forward-looking statements are reasonable, but they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results or performance to be materially different. In particular, our expectations regarding the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, including the potential effects of the pandemic subsiding, are based on our best estimate at this time and are therefore subject to change. Please read and consider risk factors in our filings with the SEC together with the content of this call. Any forward-looking statements are based on our assumptions and expectations to date. And except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these statements in light of future events or new information. During this call, we'll present GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures exclude stock-based compensation, employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions, amortization of acquired intangible assets, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs from our notes, acquisition-related expenses, and, as applicable, other special items. In addition, we provide non-GAAP-weighted average share count and information regarding free cash flows and billings. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be considered in isolation from, a substitute for, or superior to our GAAP results. We encourage you to consider all measures when analyzing our performance. For information regarding our non-GAAP financial information, the most directly comparable GAAP measures, and a quantitative reconciliation of those figures, please refer to today's earnings press release, which can be found on our website at investor.docusign.com. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Dan. Dan? Dan Springer -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Annie. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our first-quarter earnings call for fiscal 2022. We have a lot to cover today, and I'd like to focus my comments on four key areas: our strong Q1 fiscal year '22 results, more insight into the breadth of our customer journey, the international business landscape and how we see that evolving, finally, the key investments we made in technology and people as fourth. But before we get to the financials, I want to share some observations on our market overall. Since the start of the pandemic, DocuSign has helped accelerate access to healthcare, government, education, small business lending, and many other services around the world. What began as an urgent need has now transformed into a strategic priority. And as a result, DocuSign has become an indispensable part of many organizations' business processes. Put another way, once businesses digitally transform their agreement processes, they simply don't go back. We believe this trend will only accelerate as the anywhere economy continues to emerge. In fact, just a few weeks ago, we were excited to welcome DocuSign's 1 millionth customer in this platform. And this move to digital has manifested itself in a great start to the year with Docusign. We saw strong performance on all fronts, delivering a balance of growth and profitability at scale [Audio gap]. Our revenue grew 58% year over year to $460 million for the quarter. International reached a milestone with over $100 million in revenue for the quarter. Non-GAAP operating margins reached an all-time high at 20%, and the top-line growth outpaced our investment [Audio gap] and strong expansion across our existing customer base drove record-high dollar net retention of 125%. From any vantage point, these are exceptional results that reflect the continued demand and engagement we are seeing from our customers across all industries and use cases. I am particularly proud of the DocuSign team's abilities to execute despite the vast majority of our 6,000 strong workforce still working remotely. As we said consistently, eSignature is the on-ramp to DocuSign for most companies. This quarter was no exception as we saw new and existing customers adopt and expand at record rates, with use cases and envelope volumes increasing significantly. Let me give you just a few examples. A large delivery service provider needed to capture, monitor, and report on new benefit structures for its workers. We helped the team leverage eSignature PowerForm and DocuSign's Insight analytics to create an entirely new and streamlined process. This saved them hundreds of hours of manual processing with its accurate and efficient management reporting, and it provides an extensible solution for future growth. One of our restaurant service customers needed a way to streamline and automate their agreement generation and signing processes as their industry began to reopen. We worked with them to improve turnaround time and increase sales productivity. Importantly, this dramatically decreased the time to complete agreement from two weeks, now it's just three days. And one of our leading grocery production customer was printing over a million pieces of paper a month as part of their manufacturing process. They started using eSignature template and quickly took more than 100,000 sheets of paper out of circulation, a number that will only grow now that other business units can leverage the technology. Now, this expansion was not just domestic, but international as well. In Q1, our business outside the U.S. contributed 21% of total revenue, and it continues to be the biggest future growth driver for us and the largest part of our TAM. Today, this looks much like our North American business several years ago. Customers growing and expanding in a similar way. Take one of our multinational telecom customer as one example. They were looking for a way to digitally transform their internal and external contracting processes and reduce their environmental impact. Using the DocuSign API, the company now has defined workflows for verification, validation, and the automatic archiving of their contract. They sent and deployed the solution in countries across Europe and sub-Saharan Africa. In response to the pandemic, an international pharmaceutical customer takes a huge increase in new users in a regulated industry where standards advance, and qualified eSignatures are required. Our teams work together, and the results speak for themselves. Amid a 270% increase in new users, they sent 650% more envelopes and completed them 50% faster. And the time to onboard new users dropped from three weeks [Audio gap]. We are also driving a variety of strategic initiatives internationally. In late April, we officially opened our virtual doors in Mexico to increase our ability to service customers in Spanish-speaking [Audio gap] and we're excited by the early traction we're seeing there already. We also upping our focus on regional product offerings and [Inaudible]. DocuSign products are grounded in high availability, reliability, security, data privacy, regulatory compliance, and trust. But we can now take that one step further with products like eWitness in the U.K. This product makes it possible to electronically identify witnesses when they are signing an agreement. This is increasingly important in the U.K. as the country's land registration authority just began accepting witness' electronic signatures for their property transactions. DocuSign executed the first-ever land registry deed submitted electronically. And now, we're enabling a new class of high-volume high-value agreements that can only be done on paper before. So looking ahead, for the rest of fiscal year '22 and beyond, we remain committed to our vision for the DocuSign agreement platform, both as a key pillar and a software platform for the anywhere economy. Key to that are some important investments in our product, platform, and company as a whole. Couple of which I want to highlight for you today. The first is our acquisition of the technology and the team from Clause, an innovative smart agreement technology [Inaudible]. Clause has been a close partner of ours and has built a platform that enables the clauses in agreement to run at computer code. These mark clauses and connect to third-party systems and drive a host of actions like sending notifications, running compliance checks, and sending contract status updates. Their experience developing specific solutions, financial services, insurance, and healthcare company also complements the way DocuSign helps many of our customers and how we want to architect the Agreement Cloud for the future. We're really excited to welcome Peter Hunn and the whole team to DocuSign. Second highlight is our continued expansion of the executive leadership team at DocuSign. As we grow and scale, it's vital that we optimize our system's processes and technology infrastructure to support the needs of today and the rapidly evolving [Inaudible]. It's equally important that we have the right leaders in place to oversee and drive that evolution. That's why I'm thrilled to welcome Shanthi Iyer as our new CIO. As a former chief data officer at Cisco, Shanthi will ensure that DocuSign is world-class in all of those areas, and we're thrilled to have her on board. Also, as we continue our international growth, we're expanding our local and regional leadership bench, too. In Q1, we appointed the former regional Salesforce COO, Dan Bognar, to help lead our regional efforts in APJ. Before I hand it over to Cynthia, I want to reiterate that I am optimistic about the year ahead. The value we offer, our transformation of the agreement process, and everything our team is doing to help our customers and our partners around the world. I look forward to talking with you all during Q&A. Now, over to you, Cynthia. Cynthia Gaylor -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Dan, and good afternoon, everyone. We followed up an exceptional year in fiscal '21 with an impressive start to fiscal '22, driven by strong execution. Continued customer demand for our eSignature offering led to notable top-line growth at scale. We demonstrated significant leverage in our business model, with record operating margin and cash flow in the first quarter. Total revenue increased 58% year over year to $469 million and subscription revenue grew 61% year over year to $452 million. Elevated consumption levels by existing customers continue to drive the trend of early renewals and expansions in the quarter, aided by secular tailwinds as customer digitize their businesses. We saw exceptional growth outside of the U.S., with particular strength in EMEA this quarter as our investments continue to gain traction. In Q1, international revenue crossed the $100 million threshold for the first time. In total, international revenue grew 84% year over year to $101 million. Billings also benefited from the strength in customer demand, climbing 54% year over year to reach $527 million, our second quarter above half a billion. Customer growth remains healthy with the addition of more than 96,000 new customers in the quarter. This brings our total installed base to over 988,000 customers worldwide as of the end of Q1, an increase of 50% compared to a year ago. This includes another 11,000 direct customers, bringing our total direct customer base to 136,000, an increase of 53% year over year. We saw customers with an annual spend greater than $300,000 grow 42% year over year to a total of 673 customers, adding a record 74 customers in Q1. Continued expansions and upsells led to a strong dollar net retention rate of 125% for Q1, highlighting the expansion economics we've seen over the past year since the pandemic began. Total non-GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 81%, compared with 79% a year ago, while the subscription gross margin was 85%, compared with 84% a year ago. As a result of the outperformance on our top line, we saw a demonstrated operating leverage. Non-GAAP operating margin reached our target model range for the first time at 20%, or $93 million, compared with 8%, or $23 million, in the first quarter of last year. We are still in the early innings of a large market opportunity. We plan to continue investing for long-term growth, particularly in sales capacity, marketing, R&D, and the scaling of our operations. Non-GAAP net income for Q1 was $92 million, compared with $24 million in the first quarter of last year. We ended the quarter with 6,080 employees, an increase of 42% over last year. Cash flow also outperformed. Operating cash flow was $136 million, or 29% margin, due to top-line performance and strong collection. This compares with $59 million, or 20%, in the same quarter a year ago. Free cash flow came in at $123 million, or 26% margin, in the quarter, compared to $33 million, or 11%, in the prior year. We exited Q1 with $876 million in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and investments. Now, let me turn to guidance. For the second quarter and fiscal year '22, we anticipate total revenue of $479 million to $485 million in Q2, or growth of 40% to 42% year over year; and $2.027 billion to $2.039 billion for fiscal '22, or growth of 40% year over year. Of this, we expect subscription revenue of $459 million to $465 million in Q2 or growth of 42% to 44% year over year; and $1.953 billion to $1.965 billion for fiscal '22, or growth of 41% to 42% year over year. For billings, we expect $549 million to $561 million in Q2, or growth of 35% to 38% year over year; and $2.338 billion to $2.362 billion for fiscal '22, or growth of 36% to 37% year over year. We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be 79% to 81% for both Q2 and fiscal '22. We expect non-GAAP operating margin to be 16% to 18% for Q2 and fiscal '22. We expect to see a de minimis amount of interest and other income. We also expect a tax provision of approximately $10 million to $12 million for fiscal '22. We expect fully diluted weighted average shares outstanding of 205 million to 210 million for both Q2 and fiscal '22. In closing, we are incredibly pleased with our Q1 performance. More than ever, we are enabling businesses around the world. As the anywhere economy continues to develop and grow, DocuSign will remain an integral part of our customers' digital evolution. Thanks for joining us today. We will now open up the call for Q&A. Operator? 