
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the Cardinal Health, Inc. Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Kevin Moran, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Kevin Moran -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Good morning, and welcome. Today, we will discuss Cardinal Health's third quarter fiscal 2021 results, along with an update to our FY '21 outlook. You can find today's press release and presentation on the IR section of our website at ir.cardinalhealth.com. Joining me today are Mike Kaufmann, Chief Executive Officer; and Jason Hollar, Chief Financial Officer. During the call, we will be making forward-looking statements. The matters addressed in the statements are subject to the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied. Please refer to our SEC filings and the forward-looking statement slide at the beginning of our presentation for a description of these risks and uncertainties. Please note, that during the discussion today, our comments will be on a non-GAAP basis unless they're specifically called out as GAAP. GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations for all relevant periods can be found in the schedules attached to our press release. [Operator Instructions]With that, I'll now turn the call over to Mike.Mike Kaufmann -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. Before I turn it over to Jason, I will provide a few high-level thoughts. We remain focused on serving our customers and their patients and continue to advance our strategic priorities. With our resilient business model, we are navigating the effects of the pandemic on our businesses. In the quarter, we continued to see strong demand for lab and PPE products and volume recovery in our nuclear business. Medical elective procedure utilization experienced some volatility, and we saw ongoing COVID-19 related softness in generics volumes, which we now expect to extend into the next fiscal year. With these updated assumptions, we have revised our Pharma segment outlook. Despite the impacts of COVID-19, our business fundamentals are strong, demonstrated by the underlying growth we are seeing in both segments, and we continue to advance our strategic priorities including optimizing our supply chain and portfolio as you saw in our recently announced agreement to sell the Cordis business. As we navigate the pandemic, our customer focus remains central to our activities. We deeply appreciate that it is our responsibility to serve healthcare providers, their patients and those on the front lines. Although the operating environment remains dynamic, it has reinforced our critical role in the supply chain, and it highlights opportunities for us to enhance our operation and evolve for future growth.

 



I'll discuss some of the changes we are making later in my comments, but first I'll turn it over to Jason to provide additional details on our results and outlook.Jason Hollar -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Mike. Before I dive into the current quarter, as a reminder we are now comparing against a prior year quarter that included a benefit from accelerated pharmaceutical sales and increased PPE demand due to the onset of COVID-19. Now for our consolidated third quarter results, total company revenue of $39.3 billion was inline with the prior year. Consolidated gross margin for the period was $1.8 billion. SG&A decreased nearly 4% to $1.1 billion, demonstrating our enterprisewide commitment to disciplined expense management. The net result for the quarter was operating earnings of $689 million, a decrease of 4% due to the impact of COVID-19, primarily concentrated in the Pharma segment. Adjusted for COVID-19, we estimate operating earnings would have grown mid-single digits in the quarter. Moving below the line, interest and other income and expense decreased significantly in the quarter, driven by multiple items, including an increase in the value of our deferred compensation plan investments, lower interest expense from prior period debt reduction or one-time investment gains. As we previously mentioned, deferred compensation gains or losses reported in interest and other are fully offset in corporate SG&A and net neutral to our bottom line. Average diluted shares outstanding were $294 million. Of note, during the quarter, we repurchased $200 million of shares. Third quarter EPS was $1.53, which reflects an effective tax rate of 31.2%, approximately 5.5 percentage points above the prior year, due to the timing of discreet items. This includes adjustments for the resolution of all and issues with the IRS for fiscal years 2008 to 2010 as well as certain transfer pricing matters for fiscal years 2011 to 2014, which also impacted results for later years.Turning to cash and the balance sheet, we generated operating cash flow of $277 million, bringing our year-to-date operating cash flow to $1.8 billion. As a reminder, the day of the week in which the quarter ends affects point-in-time cash flows. We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $3.5 billion and no outstanding borrowings under our credit facilities. Now for the segment results, beginning with Pharma on Slide 5. Pharma segment revenue was flat $35.1 billion. This reflects sales growth from Pharmaceutical Distribution and Specialty Solutions customers, compared against the previously mentioned COVID-19-related sales acceleration in the prior year. Segment profit decreased 4% to $511 million, primarily due to COVID-19-related volume declines in our generics program, which was partially offset by a higher contribution for brand sales mix. Excluding the volume impacts, our generics program continued to see generally consistent market dynamics. Additionally, we were encouraged to see our Nuclear business continue its recovery as we saw an improvement in volumes as we exited the quarter. In Specialty, we continue to see year-over-year growth and are excited about recent wins in our 3PL and Hub business. And the pharma team remains focused on diligent expense management, delivering strong cost savings in the quarter. Now, I'm transitioning to Medical on Slide 6. Medical segment revenue increased 3% to $4.2 billion, driven primarily by the impact from COVID-19 on products and distribution. As in prior quarters, we saw higher selling prices and volumes in PPE as well as higher volumes in our lab business, partially offset by lower demand for surgical products resulting from reduced elective procedures. Segment profit decreased 2% to $174 million.

 



During the quarter, cost savings including global manufacturing efficiencies were offset by a decline in products and distribution. Additionally, segment profit experienced a slight net negative impact due to COVID-19, driven by the sell-through of PPE safety stock in the prior year. Now, let me step back to help frame our performance sequentially within the context of the previously discussed factors. During the third quarter, demand for surgical products used in elective procedures averaged approximately 90% of pre-COVID-19 compared to the 95% average in the prior quarter. We saw choppiness especially early in the quarter, consistent with the evolution of the virus in various geographies, but as we exited the third quarter, elective volumes rebounded back to around 95%. Our lab business continued to experience the tailwind from increased demand for COVID-19 testing products, though as expected, not quite at the peak level seen last quarter. Regarding PPE, we continue to see elevated volumes. In the quarter, we were successful in managing the significant cost increases that we've incurred to procure select PPE products. As we previously mentioned, many of our customers have chosen to leverage our supply assurance program to manage market uncertainties, and we continue to expect timing variability as we support our customers through this dynamic environment. Next, on Slide 8, I will review updates to our fiscal '21 outlook.Based on our performance to date and increase visibility for the balance of the fiscal year, we are narrowing our EPS guidance to $5.90 to $6.05, which continues to reflect 10% EPS growth at the mid-point. We are making the following changes to our corporate assumptions. We now expect interest and other in the range of $145 million to $160 million, driven primarily by the deferred compensation favorability to date, which as a reminder, is offset above the line. We are narrowing our effective tax rate to 23.5% to 25%, reflecting the previously mentioned IRS resolutions. We expect diluted weighted average shares outstanding of approximately 294 million shares, which includes the repurchases completed during the quarter. Additionally, capital expenditures are now expected in the range of $400 million to $430 million. Moving to the segment outlook on Slide 9. We are updating our Pharma segment profit outlook to flat to down low single digits due to updated expectations for COVID-19. Based on our third quarter exit rates and what we saw in April, we still expect brand pharmaceutical volumes to be at or near pre-COVID-19 levels as we exit the fiscal year, but we now expect the volume recovery of certain therapeutic classes within generics to extend into the end of calendar year 2021.As for the Medical segment, we continue to expect elective procedures to be at or near pre-COVID levels by the end of the fiscal year as well as segment profit growth in the low to mid-20s percentage range for fiscal '21. With respect to the enterprise, we now expect COVID-19 to be a minimal net year-over-year driver. This guidance assumes a meaningful year-over-year COVID-19 headwind for the Pharma segment and a similar tailwind for the Medical segment. Before I conclude, let me take a moment to provide an update on capital allocation. We continue to manage our portfolio and the balance sheet in a prudent manner consistent with our priorities while at the same time driving improved financial flexibility. We expect the sale of Cordis to close in the first quarter of our fiscal '22. This transaction, along with the previously announced tax receivable, is expected to generate nearly $2 billion of incremental proceeds in the first half of our fiscal '22. We expect to utilize these proceeds in a manner consistent with our stated capital allocation priorities, investing in the business, maintaining a strong balance sheet and returning cash to shareholders. With respect to our first priority, investing in the business to enable our strong pipeline of organic growth opportunities, we continue to be excited by the projects in flight.We expect this to remain our highest focus for capital deployment and to continue to prioritize investment in these areas. Regarding the balance sheet, as previously communicated, we expect to repay $1.4 billion of debt on or before June 2022. Combined with prior repayments, this would represent a total debt reduction of nearly $5 billion over five years. While we will continue to evaluate additional opportunities to reduce debt, we anticipate our future repayments will be more modest as we approach our leverage target. At the same time, we are committed to our dividend, which remains an important component of our capital allocation strategy. With that in mind, our Board recently approved a 1% dividend increase for fiscal '22. Outside of these three key priorities, we'll continue to evaluate tuck-in M&A within our strategic growth areas and opportunistic share repurchases. As I mentioned, our improving financial flexibility enabled the deployment of capital for share repurchases during the third quarter.With that, I'll turn it back over to Mike.Mike Kaufmann -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Jason. As I mentioned earlier, the last year has highlighted certain opportunities for growth, transformation and innovation, and we're confident that our strategic direction will deliver both short- and long-term success. In Pharma, we are excited about the mid- to long-term trajectory of the segment. Our business model is resilient. We're expecting strong long-term growth in key areas like specialty and nuclear, both of which are rebounding well from prior COVID-related impacts, and we are executing a robust pipeline of initiatives in PD to support our customers' evolving needs. We also continue to invest in new technology solutions that enhance the customer experience and improve patient care. In Specialty, our recently launched Navista Tech Solutions uses artificial intelligence to identify and match cancer patients to clinical trials. These insights enable oncologists to improve outcomes and reduce cost as they transition to value-based care. We are also offering digital solutions in the connected care businesses that we recently branded collectively as outcomes. Each year, medication non-adherence cost, the U.S. healthcare system over $500 billion and contributes to around 275,000 avoidable patient death. With Outcomes, we've created a digital ecosystem that unites pharmacists, payers and pharmaceutical companies to improve medication adherence, drive better outcomes and lower the cost of care. Outcomes currently supports a network of 23 million patients and more than 60,000 pharmacy sites nationwide and through continued growth, it's positioned to address the challenge of medication adherence.As I look toward the future, I am excited about these innovations across the segment that combine our heritage and strengths with new technologies to create unique solutions that support our customers' ever-changing needs and create long-term value across the continuum of care. Turning to Medical. We continue to enhance our operations to better serve our customers and their patients. For example, we continue to diversify the geographic concentration of our sourcing and invest in our self-manufacturing capabilities. This includes producing 15 million more safety needles and syringes, 20 million more isolation gowns and 150 million more surgical and procedure masks annually in our own North American facilities. We are also supporting customers' inventory needs with stockpile as-a-service storage solution in partnering with the Strategic National Stockpile to store and distribute 80,000 pallets of critical PPE. We are incorporating robotics, automation and data analytics across our warehouse and distribution process. We are piloting various technologies and being thoughtful about how and where to scale them across our network. We also continue to invest in key areas across the segment. For example, we are expanding our lab kitting services to support home collection for a broad array of lab tests from wellness to infectious disease, and we are coupling these services with capabilities in our Cardinal Health at-Home and OptiFreight businesses to maximize value and create differentiated solutions.By meeting the patient where they are, our lab kitting supports testing protocol adherence and detection of early onset disease, ultimately, lowering the cost of care. And in Medical Services, our OptiFreight Logistics business is launching innovative and comprehensive healthcare logistics offerings like our same-day solutions, which is being scaled nationally to support the time-critical logistics of our customers. Together, these work streams across medical position us to support our customers and drive long-term growth. Along with these work streams in each segment, we are also focused on enterprisewide investments as well as advancing our capital allocation, portfolio optimization and ESG priorities. We continue to invest in our delivery networks, cold chain capabilities and supply chain capacity and visibility. For example, we are partnering with FourKites, the largest predictive supply chain visibility platform to create a cognitive network spanning both pharma and medical that combines real-time supply chain visibility, machine learning and artificial intelligence. This network facilitates inventory flow and gives our customers end-to-end visibility to see products in transit, enabling us to make any necessary adjustments for our customers in real time so they can better serve their patients. Regarding our capital allocation priorities, we have strong momentum. We remain committed to investing for future growth, maintaining a strong balance sheet and returning capital to shareholders. We are on track to exceed our savings targets and are continuing to use some of these savings to reinvest in the business.We also remain focused on optimizing our portfolio. The pending sale of Cordis is progressing as expected and this divestiture enables us to simplify our operating model, further optimize our infrastructure and focus on our strategic growth areas where we are an advantaged owner. We are committed to our strategy as a global medical products and distribution leader and are focused on conducting business in markets and areas that align with our priorities. Finally, we're also advancing our environmental, social and governance activities. We recently partnered with AEP to power our global headquarters and our National Logistics Center with clean energy. And we remain deeply committed to advancing diversity, equity and inclusion at every level to ensure all of our employees can bring 100% of themselves to work every day. To close, I want to thank each of our employees whose commitment and ingenuity enable us to support our customers, their patients and our collective communities.With that, I'll pause to open it up for questions.