  OperatorThank you for standing by, this is the conference operator. Welcome to the Lululemon Athletica second-quarter 2021 earnings conference call. As a reminder, all participants are in listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. After the presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Howard Tubin, vice president investor relations for Lululemon Athletica. Please go ahead.Howard Tubin -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you and good afternoon. Welcome to Lululemon's second-quarter earnings conference call. Joining me today to talk about our results are Calvin McDonald, CEO; Meghan Frank, CFO; and Celeste Burgoyne, president, Americas and Global Guest Innovation. Before we get started, I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you that our remarks today will include forward-looking statements reflecting management's current forecast of certain aspects of Lululemon future. These statements are based on current information which we have assessed, but which by its nature is dynamic and subject to rapid and even abrupt changes. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by these forward-looking statements due to risks and uncertainties associated with our business, including those we have disclosed in our most recent filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K, and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any forward-looking statements that we make on this call are based on assumptions as of today, and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update or revise any of these statements as a result of new information for future events. During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q and in today's earnings press release. In addition, the comparable sales and store productivity metrics given on today's call are in constant dollars. The press release and accompanying quarterly report on Form 10-Q are available under the Investors section of our website at www. lululemon.com. Before we begin the call, I'd like to remind our investors to visit our Investor site, where you'll find a summary of our key financial and operating statistics for the second quarter, as well as our quarterly infographic. [Operator instructions] And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Cal. Calvin McDonald -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Howard, and I'd like to welcome everyone to our second-quarter earnings call. Our momentum continued into this quarter and our results remain robust with revenue growing more than 60% when compared to the same period last year. And on a two-year CAGR basis, we are pleased to see an acceleration relative to our first quarter. These results reflect the ongoing strength across all major areas of the business. Our stores continue to rebound, generating a two-year revenue CAGR of 9%, which is ahead of our expectations. We delivered positive growth in e-commerce, which is even more impressive given the strong performance one year ago, and we continue to deliver at a high level across all major categories and geographies. I also want to give some context around these numbers and the quarter-after-the quarter performance we've been delivering. We are updating our guidance for the full year. And based upon this revised forecast, I am pleased to share that we will surpass our 2023 revenue target by the end of this year, two years ahead of schedule. And we achieved these results based upon our performance before, during, and as we emerge from COVID-19. A few more details related to these results: in 2020, we achieved our goal to double our e-commerce business. This year, we will likely achieve the goal we set to double our men's business, and we remain on track to quadruple our international business by 2023, if not sooner. I am proud of our leaders and teams for enabling us to meet and exceed these goals. As I've said before, Lululemon remains in the early innings of our growth story, and I continue to be inspired and excited with the momentum we're seeing across the business. Results of this caliber enable us to now develop our next five-year growth plan, and we'll come back to you next year with an updated view of what the future can hold for Lululemon. Looking at the second quarter, our results reflected broad-based strength across our channels, regions, and product categories. A few key metrics tell the story. First, we grew total revenue 28% on a two-year CAGR basis to $1.5 billion. This growth rate continues to outpace our three-year CAGR of 19% leading up to the pandemic, and also represents an acceleration from the 25% two-year CAGR we reported in quarter 1 of this year. In addition, our revenue increased across each of our major regions, up 26% in North America, and up 43% in our international markets, both on a two-year CAGR basis. Second, we saw further improvement in our brick-and-mortar channel with open stores generating productivity in line with 2019. I'm very pleased to achieve this milestone faster than we anticipated. Third, even with the recovery in our stores, our e-commerce business remains solid. Comps increased 4% on top of the 157% increase last year. And finally, I am pleased to share that our adjusted earnings per share for the quarter were $1.65 versus $0.96 in 2019, which is significantly ahead of our expectations. Let me now share more color on our second-quarter results, starting with product innovation. From a performance standpoint, our momentum continued across categories with women's revenue increasing 26% and men's growing 31% on a two-year CAGR basis. From a product standpoint, I'd like to take a moment to highlight two key launches, the AirSupport Bra, and our latest yoga franchise, Instill. Bras remained an important expansion opportunity for us. Thanks to our unique innovations across both fabrics and construction, empowered by our proprietary research, we're very excited about our product positioning and we know that bras is a wonderful category to drive loyalty with our guests. Currently, the category represents mid-single-digit penetration, and we see an opportunity to grow this category into the low to mid-teens in the coming years. This quarter, we launched the AirSupport Bra, our most tested bra to date, which was developed following five years of advanced research and development. It's made from a proprietary Ultralu fabric and expands our offering into the high-impact training category. As I've mentioned before, Lululemon's unique approach to product innovation is driven by our Science of Feel innovation platform. With this strategy firmly in place, we've introduced fabrics and products that engineer specific on-body sensations. Our popular Align franchise offers are the most distraction-free and weightless sensation, and we've expanded to include tops and bras in addition to our popular tight. Just last week, we continued to build out our yoga offering through the introduction of the Instill franchise. Made from our newest innovation in technical performance fabric called smooth cover, this fabric offers our hug sensation, which provides incredible support through every pose in your practice. It's a powerful and distinctive companion to our hugely successful Align product line and we will further solidify our leadership position within the yoga category. Last October, we launched our Impact agenda, which outlines our strategies to address critical social environmental issues over a multi-year period. I'm proud of our recent announcements to develop advanced raw materials that will help us live into our goals and create a healthier world. These include our participation in the Mylo consortium that will allow us to make products using an infinitely renewable material made from the root structure of mushrooms. We expect to launch our first products using Mylo next year. Our partnership with LanzaTech, a biotech company, which allows us to create the world's first yarn and fabric using recycled carbon emissions. And just a few weeks ago, we announced our multi-year collaboration with Genomatica, a recognized leader in sustainable materials to create a lower impact plant-based nylon. I'm excited about these three new partnerships and it's just the beginning of Lululemon's commitment to be a leader in the industry related to product, sustainability, and innovation. I would now like to speak to our supply chain about the issues facing the entire industry. Another wave of COVID-19 and related factory closures in Vietnam, ongoing issues at the ports, and reduced airfreight capacity are contributing to some disruptions within the supply chain, as well as increased costs. We are monitoring this closely and leaning into the agility of our supply chain, the strength of our planning and allocations team, and the powerful partnerships with our vendors to help mitigate the risks where we can. Our business was particularly strong in quarter 2, and our guidance calls for momentum to continue in the back half of the year. But I think it's fair to say that our business would have been even stronger without these challenges facing the industry. Meghan will have more to share regarding inventory and costs in a few moments. Let me now shift to MIRROR. We continue to be pleased with the performance of MIRROR, and let me highlight several initiatives we have on track for this year. We now have MIRROR shop-in-shops in a 150 Lululemon store, and our plans call for 200 shops in time for the holiday season. We will soon introduce MIRROR to guests in Canada, where Lululemon has an impressive level of recognition. We recently opened our second production studio in New York, allowing us to double the number of live classes, and MIRROR will launch a new e-commerce site in time for the holiday season this year. We're monitoring how macro factors currently impacting the cost of digital marketing are creating some pressure on customer acquisition costs at MIRROR. We're enthusiastic about the opportunities that exist for the business. We'll continue monitoring the rising costs associated with CAC while we move ahead with launching exciting new innovations and leveraging the synergies Lululemon brings to the relationship. Combined, these give us a unique strength to keep growing MIRROR. We will be competitive to attract new members and we will continue to take a measured and responsible approach to the business. We're playing the long game and have much to unlock in the coming years. We're also excited about how MIRROR can be the vehicle through which we offer long-term benefits to our guests, such as membership programs and special experiences. Given this strategic opportunity, we will suspend our membership tests that have been underway and apply the learnings to how we build out the MIRROR platform for guests. The learnings from our membership test are considerable. Some examples include digital sweat classes and community events were top drivers of overall program engagement. Guests want to engage deeper with us and each other, and they are willing to shift into the digital space to do so. And the program was embraced by men at a higher rate than we were expecting. These learnings were integral to our decision to complete the MIRROR acquisition, and hold true today. We look forward to sharing more with you on the evolution of our loyalty programs at a later date. Switching now to International, our sales trends continue to be robust with all major regions generating strong double-digit sales growth on a two-year CAGR basis. We opened eight stores outside of North America in quarter two and remain on track to open 35-40 stores this year internationally. As you know, we also see continued growth opportunities within North America. And I am pleased to now hand it over to Celeste, who will share some additional details with you on our stores and e-commerce business. Celeste?Celeste Burgoyne -- President, Americas and Global Guest Innovation Thank you, Calvin. I'm happy to be on the call today to speak to our omni guest experience pillar, and to share some additional details on our second-quarter performance. Looking at our store channel, total revenue increased 142% versus last year and 9% on a two-year CAGR basis. Traffic was strong and increased over 150% versus last year. In addition, I am thrilled that we're able to achieve productivity in our open stores equal to levels we saw in 2019 and happy to see these results sooner than we expected. This performance not only speaks to the success of our kick-starting, our store's initiatives and the strength of our merchandise assortment but it also speaks to our educators and store teams who bring our brand to life every day for our guests. Now let me take a moment to share with you a few highlights from several exciting community activations we recently hosted throughout the quarter. In Atlanta, we co-hosted a charity event created in partnership with leading Atlanta fitness influencers, Mecca Day and EJ Houston. Guests took three back-to-back classes, and Lululemon matched all ticket sales, which were then donated to the Black Women's Health Imperative. In Chicago, beginning in July and running through October, Lululemon is partnering with Urban Juncture Foundation to host a community pop-up on Chicago's Southside in the Boxville marketplace. Boxville is a very unique collection of shipping containers designed as a space for the community to gather and local businesses to engage in commerce. Our activation pairs our ambassadors with fitness instructors from the local community to lead over 140 complimentary fitness classes. The turnout for these classes has been really positive. And I'm really excited that we're celebrating the 10-year anniversary of our iconic CVs event with a virtual run later this month. We are really proud to be able to bring the Lululemon brand to our guests in these unique and compelling ways, and we're excited about what is yet to come. Switching now to e-commerce. As Calvin mentioned, sales trends remain positive with total digital comp up 4% in Q2. This result comes on top of the 157% increase in Q2 of last year, which benefited from our online warehouse sale, an event that we did not repeat this year. The enhancements were continuing to make to our desktop and mobile sites, which include expanding our alternative payment methods, improved storytelling, more predictive search, and more seamless checkout, all combined to continue to elevate their online guest experience. Before I hand it over to Meghan, I'd like to speak for a minute on labor and what we're seeing regarding store and call center staffing. We have always supported and invested in our people. This was never more true than last year during the pandemic. We prioritized our people and kept our teams intact by offering pay production, sick pay, and other key people investments. Not only were these initiatives the right thing to do for our people, but they kept our workforce whole and have enabled us to reopen stores with a full complement of educators and leadership teams and they are directly contributing to the strong results we've generated over the last several quarters. That being said, we are carefully monitoring the current developments in labor markets, particularly in North America, and we remain committed to doing what's right for our store and DC team. We've recently announced that we will raise the minimum base pay for our store and guest education center roles in North America, taking our new base pay to $15 to $17 per hour, depending on the location and roll, plus all levels are eligible for a monthly bonus on top of base pay. Our teams are incredibly deserving of this new rate and we feel it sets us up strongly going into what will be a busy Q4. In closing, I'd like to thank the entire Lululemon family, especially our teams in stores and our guest education center, and in our distribution centers around the world. These teams are the heart and soul of our brand, and they are responsible for the elevated experience our guests enjoy each and every time they engage with us. We are so grateful for everyone's hard work and dedication. And for that, I'd like to say thank you. I will now turn it over to Meghan.Meghan Frank -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Celeste. Our momentum continued in Q2 with our top and bottom-line results exceeding our expectations. Strong guests' response to our merchandise offering and improving store trends and continued strength in e-commerce fueled our growth, and contributed to our increased outlook for the year, which I will take you through in a moment. As Calvin mentioned, we continue to navigate industrywide challenges with COVID-related factory closures, slowdowns at the ports, and reduced airfreight capacity impacting our business as we move into the second half of the year. I'll share some of the specific impacts of these issues with you as I take you through our Q2 financials and our guidance. Despite these headwinds, we expect both strong revenue and EPS for the year, and we remain on track to deliver, or in some cases even exceed our goals as set forth in our Power 3 growth plan. Let me now share with you the details of our Q2 performance. I will also discuss specifics on our balance sheet, including our cash position, liquidity, and inventory. Please note that the adjusted financial metrics I will share include the operating results of MIRROR but exclude approximately $8.1 million of acquisition-related costs and our associated tax effect in Q2 2021 and $11.5 million of acquisition-related costs and their associated tax effects in Q2 2020. You can refer to our earnings release for more information and reconciliations to our GAAP metrics. For Q2, total net revenue increased 61% to $1.5 billion, above our expectations of $1.3 million to $1.33 billion. This included a 63% increase in North America and a 49% increase in our international business. On a two-year CAGR basis, total revenue increased 28% with North America up 26% and International increasing 43%. In our digital channel, revenues increased 66% on a two-year CAGR basis, above our expectations of approximately 55% growth. E-com contributed $597 million of top-line or 41% of total revenue. In our store channel, sales increased 9% on a two-year CAGR basis, above our expectations of approximately flat. Productivity in stores returned to 2019 levels, representing continued improvement versus 88% productivity we realized in Q1 of this year. At the end of the second quarter, we had 95% of our stores open. Square footage increased 8% versus last year, driven by the addition of 28 net new stores since Q2 of 2020. During the quarter, we opened 11 net new stores. Gross profit for the second quarter were $843 million or 58.1% of net revenue, compared to 54.2% of net revenue in Q2 2020, and 55% of net revenue in Q2 2019. Our gross margin increases of 310 basis points relative to 2019 was driven by 290 basis points of leverage on occupancy depreciation and product team costs, and 60 basis points of favorability in foreign exchange, which was partially offset by a 40-basis-point decrease in product margin, driven by a 120-basis-point increase in airfreight related to COVID-19. I would also note that markdowns declined relative to 2019. Moving to SG&A. Our approach continues to be grounded and prudently managing our expenses while also continuing to strategically invest in our long-term growth opportunities. SG&A expenses were $541 million or 37.3% of net revenue, compared to 39.1% of net revenue in Q2 2020 and 36% of net revenue in Q2 2019. Leverage in the quarter versus Q2 2020 resulted from a sales increase relative to the COVID-impacted quarter last year. The deleverage relative to Q2 2019 is the result of the consolidation of MIRROR's results this year, but not in 2019 and deleverage on foreign exchange. Adjusted operating income for the quarter was $299 million or 20.6% of net revenue compared to 15% of net revenue in Q2 2020, and 19% of net revenue in Q2, 2019. Adjusted tax expense for the quarter was $83.5 million or 27.9% of pre-tax earnings, compared to an adjusted effective tax rate of 28.9% a year ago. The reduction relative to last year is due primarily to deductions related to stock-based compensation. Adjusted net income for the quarter was $216 million or $1.65 per diluted share, compared to adjusted earnings per diluted share of $0.74 in Q2 of 2020 and $0.96 in Q2 of 2019. Capital expenditures were $80 million for the quarter, compared to $53 million in the second quarter last year. Q2 spend relates primarily to store capital for new locations, relocation and renovations, supply chain investment, and technology spend to support our business growth. Turning to our balance sheet highlights, we ended the quarter with $1.6 billion of total liquidity. We had approximately $1.2 billion in cash and cash equivalents and nearly $400 million of available capacity under our revolving credit facility. Inventory grew 17% versus last year and was $790 million at the end of Q2. This is below our expectations for a 25% to 30% increase due to our top-line outperformance coupled with industrywide supply chain disruptions. However, on a two-year CAGR basis, this represents inventory growth of 26% versus our expectation for 24% to 25% revenue growth in Q3 on a two-year CAGR basis. As we've mentioned, we're seeing some delayed inventory receipts due to issues at the ports and also the recent COVID-related closures of certain factories in Southern Vietnam. Our supply chain and product teams are working diligently to mitigate these risks by shifting production out of Vietnam where possible with our vendors who operate in multiple countries, prioritizing production to ensure key fall holiday styles are produced first, and strategically increasing our use of airfreight. At the end of Q3, we expect inventory levels to increase approximately 15% to 20% relative to Q3 2020. While this level of inventory can support our increased revenue guidance I'm going to walk through in a moment, it is lower than we had initially targeted due to supply chain challenges. In Q2, we repurchased 506,000 shares at an average price of $338. At the end of the quarter, we had 245 million of availability remaining on our current share repurchase authorization. Let me shift now to our outlook for Q3 and the full-year 2021. The underlying demand for our brand is strong. And while we are navigating temporary headwinds in our supply chain, which are impacting both top line and gross margin, we are pleased with our momentum headed into the second half. We currently have approximately 95% of our stores opened globally, we're engaging with guests inside our stores and through our community activations, and our e-commerce business remains strong. For Q3, we expect revenue in the range of $1.4 billion to $1.43 billion, representing a two-year CAGR of 24% to 25%. We expect gross margin in Q3 to increase 50 to 100 basis points versus Q3 of 2019. Relative to 2019, our gross margin is benefiting from a higher e-com penetration and leverage on occupancy and depreciation. Our Q3 guidance reflects an impact of approximately 200 basis points of pressure from airfreight costs due to port congestion and capacity constraints. In Q3, we expect SG&A deleverage of approximately 300 to 350 basis points relative to 2019. Drivers of the deleverage versus 2019 include consolidation of MIRROR's results this year but not in 2019, increased investments in brand-building for our growth initiatives and higher depreciation due to accelerating investment to support our e-commerce business in 2020 and 2021. Turning to EPS. We expect adjusted earnings per share in the third quarter to be in the range of $1.33 to $1.38 versus adjusted EPS of $1.16 a year ago. This includes operating results for MIRROR that excludes acquisition and integration-related costs. As a reminder, we reported EPS of $0.96 in Q3 of 2019. For the full year of 2021, we now expect revenue to be in the range of $6.19 billion to $6.26 billion. This range now assumes our e-commerce business grows in the mid-teens, relative to the outsized strength we experienced in 2020. Our annual range also assumes the factories we used to source products in Vietnam begin a phased reopening in mid-September. When looking at total revenue, our guidance range implies a two-year CAGR of approximately 25%, which is higher than our three-year revenue CAGR of 19% leading up to 2020 and is well ahead of the low-teens CAGR we contemplated in our Power 3 growth plan. We continue to expect to open 45 to 55 net new company-operated stores in 2021. This includes approximately 35 to 40 stores in our international markets and represents a square footage percentage increase in the low-teens. We continue to expect gross margin for the year to expand between 150 to 200 basis points compared to the modest increase we saw in 2020. For the year, the anticipated margin expansion now includes 150 to 200 basis points of negative impact from additional airfreight costs but still in excess of Power 3 growth plan, which assumes modest gross margin expansion annually. When looking at SG&A for the full year, we now expect deleverage of 10 to 30 basis points versus 2020. Drivers of the deleverage continue to include our investment in MIRROR brand-building. We expect our adjusted effective tax rate for the year to be similar to 2020. We now expect our fiscal year 2021 adjusted diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $7.38 to $7.48. Our EPS guidance continues to assume modest dilution from MIRROR in the 3% to 5% range, excluding acquisition and integration-related costs. It also excludes the impact of any future share repurchases. We continue to expect capital expenditures to be approximately $365 million to $375 million in 2021. The increase versus 2020 reflects increased investment in our supply chain, digital capabilities, new store openings, and renovations, including MIRROR shop-in-shops, as well as other technology and general corporate infrastructure projects. Before handing it back to Calvin, I want to express my gratitude to the entire Lululemon collective. It is you who brings our brand to life every day and enables our strong financial results. And now, back to Calvin for some closing remarks.Calvin McDonald -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Meghan and Celeste. Before I open it up to questions, I wanted to take a look back on these results and the previous quarters and speak for a moment about the unique business model that drives their success, enables our strong performance, and allows us to navigate COVID-19 and the current headwinds impacting our supply chain. Our vertically integrated model and high margin structure allows us to use more airfreight while still delivering gross margin expansion. Our focus on technical athletic apparel allows us to benefit from trends in consumer behavior that are becoming more important year after year, and our inventory, which leverages many key core styles with less seasonality, helps us navigate and mitigate disruptions within the supply chain. Looking at our business over the course of the second quarter and the first half of the year, I continue to be excited about our day-to-day progress. Our ability to sustain momentum quarter after quarter and year after year, and the incredible long-term prospects for our brand. And with that, we'll be happy to take your questions. Operator? 