
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Teledyne Second quarter Earnings Call 2021. [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions]And I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host, Jason VanWees. Please go ahead.Jason VanWees -- Executive Vice President, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

 



Thank you, and good morning, everyone. This is Jason VanWees, Executive Vice President. And I'd like to welcome everyone to Teledyne's second quarter earnings release conference call. And of course, we released our earnings earlier this morning before the market opened. Joining me today are Teledyne's Executive Chairman, Robert Mehrabian; President and CEO, Al Pichelli; Senior Vice President and CFO, Sue Main; and Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and Secretary, Melanie Cibik. After remarks by Robert, Al and Sue, we will ask for your questions. Again, before we get started, attorneys have reminded me to tell you that all forward-looking statements made this morning are subject to various assumptions, risks and caveats as noted in the earnings release and our periodic SEC filings. And of course, actual results may differ materially. In order to avoid potential selective disclosures, this call is simultaneously being webcast and a replay via webcast and dial-in will be available for approximately one month.Here is Robert.Robert Mehrabian -- Executive Chairman, Teledyne Technologies IncorporatedThank you, Jason, and good morning, and thank you for joining our earnings call. For over two decades now, we've continuously improved our portfolio of businesses, our operations and our financial performance, and along the way, significantly compounded earnings, cash flow and shareholder returns. It is worth noting that just over 10 years ago, a major milestone occurred when we divested our aviation piston engine business and all of its associated liabilities. While initiated earlier, immediately following that divestiture, we accelerated our pace of change by making increasingly significant and successful acquisitions within our Digital Imaging and Instrumentation businesses. Our recent acquisition of FLIR accelerates Teledyne's evolution into a more attractive, higher-margin industrial technology company, while at the same time, maintaining our balanced portfolio, primarily focused on commercial markets, but with a resilient and predictable backbone of government businesses. For example, in the second quarter of 2021, 75% of total company sales were derived from U.S. commercial and international customers and 25% of sales from the U.S. government. In the past several weeks, we've made rapid progress integrating FLIR by implementing Teledyne processes such as acceleration of financial forecasting and reporting, increasing visibility of sales and costs across the organization, while continuing to enhance FLIR's compliance standards.

 



Furthermore, we've eliminated significant corporate overhead, consultants and other third-party service providers. And as a result, we now expect to achieve our annualized cost savings target of $80 million before the end of 2022 as opposed to 2024, as described in our final merger proxy. Turning to the second quarter results. The second quarter was truly a record for Teledyne with sales, operating margin and earnings, that's excluding acquisition-related costs, all of these increased significantly from prior period. We achieved double-digit organic growth for the total company, with sales from Digital Imaging, Environmental and Electronic Test and Measurement, Instrumentation increasing from 17% to nearly 25% year-over-year. The operating margin of our legacy businesses collectively was an all-time record. And with FLIR, our non-GAAP operating margin of 22.8% was an all-time record in the second quarter. I should note that very strong non-GAAP margin and earnings performance in Q2 resulted partially from a disproportionate amount of sales from FLIR relative to costs. That is, given FLIR's current lack of linearity shipments, we essentially benefited from 8.5 weeks equivalent of sales volume and contribution margin relative to only six weeks of fixed cost.In the second half, FLIR's quarterly sales relative to costs were normalized, resulting in somewhat lower margins in all cases, excluding transaction-related expenses. In addition, the average share count in the second quarter only partially reflected the stock issued in connection with the FLIR transaction, which will impact EPS in the second half. On a full year basis and after a strong first half, we now think it's reasonable outlook for legacy Teledyne businesses' organic growth in 2021 to be approximately 6.5%, led by forecasted growth of nearly 12% in Digital Imaging, excluding FLIR. With normalized sales for Q3 and Q4, we expect FLIR to contribute sales of just under $1.3 billion in 2021. Collectively, therefore, we now expect reported sales for the year of approximately $4.580 billion. Our new outlook, which excludes acquisition-related transactions, transaction and purchase accounting expenses, can be summarized as follows. In April, we provided a GAAP earnings outlook for legacy Teledyne businesses of about $12.10. On a comparable basis, our current outlook is approximately $12.40, which is $0.30 above the earlier outlook.Given the 50 basis points increase in organic growth from 6% to 6.5% today versus April and 40 basis points additional margin improvement, that's resulted in the overall $0.30 increase in our guidance. Intangible asset amortization from prior to FLIR transactions divided by the pre-FLIR share count would add around $0.80 to our earnings, resulting in a pre-FLIR outlook of $13.20. Now incorporating FLIR, including its unusually strong partial period performance in Q2 and excluding transaction costs, results in full year 2021 accretion of over $2 per share. And thus, our current non-GAAP outlook is $15.25 to $15.50.I will now turn the call over to Al who will comment on the performance of our business segments.

 



Aldo Pichelli -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Robert. In our Digital Imaging segment, second quarter sales increased 143.9%, largely due to the FLIR acquisition, but organic growth was 17%. Segment operating margin was 14.6% and 27.5% when adjusting for transaction costs and purchase accounting, although this was unusually high, as Robert mentioned earlier. In our Instrumentation segment, overall second quarter sales increased 10.6% versus last year. Sales of environmental instruments increased 19.6% from last year. Sales of most product categories increased and total quarterly sales were just slightly lower than the peak level before the COVID pandemic. Sales of Electronic Test and Measurement Systems were exceptionally strong and increased 24.6% year-over-year to record levels. Sales of our marine instrumentation decreased 4.5% in the quarter. However, orders were the strongest in the last five quarters with the second quarter book-to-bill of 1.13. Overall, Instrumentation segment operating profit increased 33.2%, with segment operating margin increasing over 360 basis points with or without intangible asset amortization.Moving to the Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. Second quarter sales increased 6.5%, driven by an 8.1% growth in defense, space and industrial sales, combined with flat year-over-year sales of commercial aerospace products. GAAP segment operating profit increased 62.3% with margins 640 basis points greater than last year. In the Engineered Systems segment, second quarter revenue decreased 1.5%, primarily due to greater sales from missile defense and marine manufacturing programs more than offset by lower sales of electronic manufacturing services products and turbine engines as we exited the cruise missile engine business at the end of the first quarter. Despite slightly lower sales, segment operating profit and margin increased slightly when compared with last year.I will now turn the call to Sue, who will offer some additional commentary regarding the third quarter and our full year 2021 earnings outlook.Susan L. Main -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Teledyne Technologies IncorporatedThank you, Al, and good morning, everyone. I will first discuss some additional financials for the quarter not covered by Robert and Al, and then I will discuss our third quarter and full year 2021 outlook. In the second quarter, cash flow from operating activities was $211.3 million, including all acquisition-related costs. Excluding acquisition-related cash costs, net of tax, cash from operations was $278.0 million compared with cash flow of $155.8 million for the same period of 2020. Free cash flow, that is cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, excluding acquisition-related costs, was $257.2 million in the second quarter of 2021 compared with $139.2 million in 2020. Capital expenditures were $20.8 million in the second quarter compared to $16.6 million for the same period of 2020. Depreciation and amortization expense was $59.7 million for the second quarter of 2021 compared with $29 million in 2020. In addition, noncash inventory step-up expense for the second quarter of 2021 was $23.4 million.We ended the quarter with approximately $4.05 billion of net debt. That is approximately $4.74 billion of debt less cash of $695.1 million. The higher debt balance at July 4, 2021, included the debt incurred to fund the cash portion of the FLIR acquisition. Stock option compensation expense was $3.6 million for the second quarter of 2021 compared to $5.7 million for the same period of 2020. Resulting from the FLIR acquisition, restricted stock unit expense for FLIR employees was $4.4 million in the second quarter of 2021. Turning to our outlook. Management currently believes that GAAP earnings per share in the third quarter of 2021 will be in the range of $2 to $2.15 per share, with non-GAAP earnings in the range of $3.55 to $3.65. And for the full year 2021, our GAAP earnings per share outlook is $8.05 to $8.45. And on a non-GAAP basis, $15.25 to $15.50. The 2021 full year estimated tax rate, excluding discrete items, is expected to be 23.9%. In addition, we currently expect less discrete tax items in 2021 compared with 2020.I will now pass the call back to Robert.Robert Mehrabian -- Executive Chairman, Teledyne Technologies IncorporatedThank you, Sue. We'd now like to take your questions. Operator, if you're ready to proceed with the questions and answers, please go ahead.