  OperatorWelcome to the first-quarter 2021 ConocoPhillips earnings conference call. My name is Hilda, and I will be your operator for today. [Operator instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis. Ellen, you may begin.Ellen DeSanctis -- Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations

 



 Thank you, Hilda. Hello, and welcome this morning to our listeners. I'll first introduce the members of our ConocoPhillips executive team who are on today's call. We have Ryan Lance, our chairman and CEO; Bill Bullock, our executive vice president and chief financial officer; Tim Leach, our executive vice president of the Lower 48; Dominic Macklon, our SVP of strategy and technology; and Nick Olds, our SVP of global operations. Today, several of our executives will make prepared remarks, and then the team will take your questions. Before I turn the call over to Ryan, a few quick reminders. In conjunction with this morning's press release, we posted a short deck of supplemental material that includes first-quarter highlights, earnings and cash flow summaries, operational highlights, and updated sensitivities. We also announced this morning that ConocoPhillips will host a virtual market update on June 30th.So save that date, we will be providing details on that meeting shortly. In today's call, we will make some forward-looking statements based on current expectations. Actual results could differ due to the factors described in today's press release and in our periodic SEC filings. And finally, we'll also refer to some non-GAAP financial measures today. Reconciliations to the nearest corresponding GAAP measure can be found in this morning's press release and on our website. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Ryan. 

 



Ryan Lance -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Ellen, and welcome to all our call participants. It's a very busy but exciting time at ConocoPhillips. With the Concho transaction now closed, our entire workforce is on a mission to emerge from last year's extreme sector volatility and the transaction integration activities as the strongest competitor in our business. We're viewing 2021 as a catalyst moment like we did in 2016 to improve every aspect of our business and again, step out from the pack by taking our disciplined, shareholder-friendly value proposition to the next level. We're taking actions across every aspect of the company to improve our underlying drivers, and our first-quarter results represent an early indication of our progress. Some of the actions we're taking are transformational, such as capturing synergies, others are chipping away at core drivers to improve efficiency and returns, such as the debt reduction plans we announced this morning. Here's what everyone in our organization is focused on. First, we believe a safe company is a successful one. With the Concho transaction, we've combined two industry-recognized safety leaders, which has aided our overall integration. And again, I want to recognize our workforce for their exceptional handling of the many challenges presented by the Winter Storm Uri last quarter. We're continually -- continuously driving to lower the cost of supply of our diverse resource base. We have a deep inventory of the very best rocks, which is a clear source of sustained competitive advantage, and we're always working to further high-grade the portfolio through asset sales but our low-cost inventory loan isn't enough.

 



 We're focused on applying our rigorous capital allocation process to optimize investments based on the metrics investors demand, free cash flow, and returns. We're driving improvements in free cash flow and returns by driving down our sustaining capital through well cost and supply chain efficiencies as well as margin improvement, driving down our cost structure through synergies and balance sheet improvements, driving down our sustaining price through the combination of lower sustaining capital and lower cost structure. And finally, we don't cap the benefit from higher prices, which means upside in free cash flow above our sustaining price. We're only a short time into the Concho integration but we're already seeing the previously announced synergies materialize, and we expect to yield additional benefits as our integration progresses. We remain committed to returning a significant portion of capital to our shareholders with a five-year track record of exceeding our target of greater than 30% of CFO. In fact, our return to shareholders since implementing our returns-focused strategy in 2016 has been 43% of cumulative CFO. So our capital return approach represents a floor on the level of capital returns, not a ceiling. We don't tie our returns to free cash flow like others are doing. So in other words, investors directly benefit from CFO expansion, including from higher prices when they occur. And as you saw in today's release, we're taking actions to further increase our returns of capital in 2021. In addition to our ordinary dividend and our previously announced $1.5 billion of buybacks, we intend to begin reducing our Cenovus ownership stake using proceeds to purchase incremental ConocoPhillips stock. We're taking action to further strengthen our balance sheet. This morning, we also announced that we're planning to reduce gross debt by $5 billion over the next five years. This will reduce our annual interest expense cost and help lower our sustaining price. And finally, we're focused on leading in ESG, especially in emissions reductions. All of this is underpinned by our talented, motivated workforce. They are the driving force in our progress. You can tell from my comments that we're encouraged by the improvements we're seeing across the company. That's why we announced in today's press release our intention to accelerate our 2021 market update from November to a virtual event on June 30th. Now here's what you can expect at that update. We'll reiterate our disciplined philosophy for the business and how we expect to enhance our through-cycle performance for a volatile price world but also for a more stable price world should that transpire. We'll reaffirm the allocation priorities that have been foundational to our company for years. Compared to our plan two years ago, we believe every part of the business has improved. And our goal is to put ConocoPhillips in an even better position to deliver multiple years of free cash flow and returns to shareholders post-Concho. We'll provide an update on our outlook for 2021 and beyond, including our synergy capture progress and our business driver improvements. We'll also provide updates on our asset base and our ESG efforts and plans. As I said earlier, it's a busy time for the company, and we're going to take advantage of our momentum to reengage the market sooner rather than later on our compelling future. Now let me turn the call over to Bill, who will address high-level quarterly results as well as our announced debt reduction and Cenovus-COP share plans.Bill Bullock -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Ryan. Well, we're certainly off to a good start in 2021. In today's posted materials, there's a summary of highlights from the first quarter, and I'll cover just a few of those items. As we foreshadowed on our March 31st market update, the financial results reflected some onetime contra-related items. Adjusted for these known items, underlying financial performance was very strong. Adjusted earnings were $0.69 per share versus $0.45 per share in the first quarter last year. Production came in at the high end of the range, and all producing segments generated positive earnings in the quarter. As shown in the cash waterfall in the supplemental materials posted on our website, first-quarter cash from operations was $2.1 billion and free cash flow was $0.9 billion. These figures include the cash flow impacts related to previously announced contra-related items, which reduced both CFO and free cash flow by about $1 billion. But even with the roughly $1 billion in onetime transaction-related impacts, our CFO of $2.1 billion very nearly covered capital, dividends, and buybacks. We returned 46% of CFO to shareholders in the quarter in the form of our ordinary dividend and share repurchases and we ended the quarter with $7.3 billion of cash and short-term investments. As a reminder, we issued updated first quarter and full-year 2021 guidance for key business drivers on March 31st. And today, we provided updated cash and earnings sensitivities. I call your attention to these because our cash flow toward to the upside has improved significantly as a result of the Concho transaction. And in a more constructive price world, we're going to differentially capture the benefit of higher prices since we're unhedged, we're liquids-weighted, and we have exposure to diverse markets globally. Turning to today's announcements, we view our balance sheet as a strategic asset, just like we do our portfolio of low cost to supply resource. And our balance sheet is very strong with top-tier leverage due to our low net debt. Now of course, our cash balances are a component of our net debt. And given that our borrowing costs exceed the returns on our cash, we plan to put some of that incremental cash to work along with future free cash flow to reduce gross debt by $5 billion over the next five years. This will reduce our ongoing interest expense, lower our ongoing free cash flow breakeven price, improve returns, and create greater flexibility on our overall debt structure, all while maintaining our strong leverage position. As part of our program, we may refinance some of our high coupon debt to take advantage of historically low interest rates and facilitate the total quantum of our debt reduction over time. Next, I'll address the Cenovus share monetization plan we announced. As a reminder, we own approximately 10% of Cenovus, which is valued at about $1.6 billion today. The shares we received as part of the consideration for our sale of Canadian assets to Cenovus in 2017, and we've always stated that we did not intend to be a long-term strategic owner of Cenovus shares. Over the years, we've looked at several strategies reducing our position, and we believe the market has responded to the positive steps Cenovus has taken, including its recent commitments to balance sheet strength and operational efficiencies. We intend to begin selling our Cenovus shares in the open market in the second quarter while simultaneously tendering the proceeds in the ConocoPhillips shares. We will be thoughtful and measured with our sales program, as you would expect, with an intention to fully dispose of our Cenovus position by the end of 2022. We believe this plan to swap Cenovus shares for ConocoPhillips shares aligns well with both our commitment to returning capital to shareholders and to monetize our Cenovus position. Taken together, our planned debt reduction and our planned swap of Cenovus shares for ConocoPhillips shares further strengthen both our balance sheet and our ongoing ability to consistently deliver differential returns of capital to our shareholders, all while lowering our sustaining price. Now I'll turn the call over to Tim for an update on the Lower 48 business.Tim Leach -- Executive Vice President, Lower 48 Thanks, Bill. We're just a few months into the ConocoPhillips-Concho integration process. And like Ryan and our other leaders, I'm more excited now than ever to tell you about our vision for the company and the great progress we've already made. I'll do a quick recap of the Lower 48 from the first quarter, which was nothing short of historic, not only because of a fast-paced integration activity but because of winterstorm Uri. Overall, the storm impacted Lower 48 production by about 50,000 barrels a day for the quarter. However, facility damage from the storm was negligible, and we quickly resumed production in March. It was a heck of a test for our expanded Lower 48 region. They passed with flying colors. Total Lower 48 production for the quarter was 715,000 BOEs per day, which includes 405,000 in the Permian, 187,000 in the Eagle Ford and 86,000 in the Bakken. We exited the first quarter with 15 drilling rigs, 11 in the Permian and four in the Eagle Ford. And we had seven frac spreads, five in the Permian and two in the Eagle Ford. It doesn't get a lot of attention but I also wanted to mention that during the quarter, we executed several innovative pilots across the Lower 48, including more than 40 twin frac wells. Electrification of our frac spreads and additional V5 completions. The point is while we're executing the base business, we're also combining the experience of both companies by conducting numerous tests that should yield future efficiency gains. My entire Lower 48 organization is excited about the role we can play in making ConocoPhillips, a company that can supply the cheapest, cleanest barrels to the market, successfully navigate the price cycles, achieve the highest level of execution efficiency, and continue to lead the industry on the innovation front. From a size and scale perspective, our Lower 48 is clearly differentiated in the industry. With the acquisition of Concho, the Lower 48 grew to be about half of ConocoPhillips' production and among the largest domestic producers. We have a high-quality set of assets and a low cost of supply resource base made up of core positions in the three premier tight oil basins in the world. Our Lower 48 team is focused on capturing the strategic advantages of both Concho and ConocoPhillips to make our operations more efficient and drive down sustaining capital with the primary goal of maximizing our cash-generating capacity. We're creating a massive free cash flow machine from our combined business that will contribute toward the company's ability to deliver on its priorities through those cycles. All of us recognize that the largest opportunity for value creation is going to come from bringing the best out of both companies and elevating the combined ConocoPhillips to a level unachievable by either company on their own. I'm happy to say that the new organization has embraced this challenge and we're seeing even more opportunity than we had initially expected. I couldn't be more pleased with the quality of people we have working on this, starting with the Lower 48 leadership team, which consists of both heritage ConocoPhillips and Concho leaders. We made it a priority to work closely together and leverage the knowledge base of both very experienced operations. In fact, we continue to see substantial improvements in our well cost. We have our eyes on additional ways to get more for less. Beyond working together to generate the best plan of development and drive efficiencies in our operations, our team is working hard to identify commercial opportunities to improve margins as well as supply chain opportunities to leverage our global scale and drive down cost. I want to leave you with a strong sense of optimism about what the Lower 48 can deliver. We are fully dedicated to extracting the full value of this deal, and I'm looking forward to providing more detail at our midyear market update. And now I'll turn the call over to Nick to provide the status of our operations in the rest of the world.Nick Olds -- Senior Vice President, Strategy and Technology Thanks, Tim. While there's clearly a lot going on in our Lower 48 business, we believe ConocoPhillips has a significant advantage over our independent peers because we also have diverse global businesses that generate significant free cash flow. Today, our Alaska and International businesses comprise about 50% of our company's operated 1.5 million barrels per day production. I'll take this opportunity to recap some of the achievements from the first quarter and bring you up to speed on activities we have under way around the globe. So starting in Alaska, I'm pleased to report that Greater Mooses Tooth 2 project has made significant progress over the past several months and facility and construction costs are about 10% below budget as we finish our third and final construction season. The project is expected to be online by the end of this year at approximately 10,000 barrels a day with peak production of 35,000 barrels a day that will leverage our existing Alpine infrastructure. We're also back to development drilling on the slope. After suspending virtually all activity in 2020, we are restarting four rigs across our operated assets in Alaska. In the Western North Slope, we restarted drilling at CD5 and commissioning activities on the new extended reach drilling rig. The ERD rig will play a significant role in augmenting Alaska's base business, allowing us to drill wells in excess of 35,000 feet, accessing low-cost supply resources while minimizing surface disturbance. So our base Alaska business is performing very well, and we've built a strong momentum coming out of 2020. And of course, it's been an eventful quarter for Willow. Let me give you a quick update on where that project stands. We continue to progress the front-end engineering and design work while at the same time, taking actions to address the legal challenges that have been recently raised. The 600 million-barrel oil discovery remains very competitive in our portfolio but we won't take final investment decision or make significant long lead investments until the litigation risks have been resolved. Now moving to Canada. At Montney, we continue to optimize our development plans to incorporate the liquids-rich acreage we acquired from Kelt, mid last year. We're leveraging our Lower 48 unconventional resource expertise and our reduced drilling costs by 25% over the first four pads. This part of our business doesn't get a lot of external attention yet, but it's worth noting that's currently produced an approximately 30,000 barrels a day, of which 50% is liquids. We continue to be excited about our future in this premier 300,000-acre unconventional position. At Surmont, we continue to take actions to reduce costs, improve netbacks, and reduce emissions, and we're seeing encouraging improvements on all three of these fronts. So in summary, Canada remains an important part of our business with quite a lot of upside and learning curve opportunities. Now moving to our Europe, Middle East, and North Africa segment. In Norway, we've made good progress on several projects, which benefit from the fiscal incentives implemented by the Norwegian government last year. We're nearing completion of Tor II and are on track to make final investment decisions on both Tommeliten Alpha and Kobra East Gekko later this year, and work continues to assess our recent discoveries at Warka and Slagugle. In Qatar, our QG3 asset continues to deliver very strong performance and generate free cash flow, and we continue to advance our evaluation of the North Field expansion opportunity. We're still very interested in participating in this project if it fits our financial framework. So we'll keep you posted as this plays out. Moving on into our Asia Pacific region. APLNG is running extremely well. Production continues to be strong, which when combined with ongoing focus on reducing capital, operating, and financing costs has brought the cash breakeven down to $25 per barrel Brent. APLNG distributed almost $100 million to the company in the first quarter of 2021 and is expected to contribute about $200 million in the second quarter. Finally, in Malaysia, we have several low cost of supply, high-margin bolt-on projects at various stages of development. The Malikai Phase 2 project achieved first oil in this year and SNP Phase 2, and Gumusut Phase 3 are on track for first oil in late 2021 and '22, respectively. So that's a brief update of our global operations. In summary, We have a lot of exciting work under way that will continue to enhance free cash flow generation. Now I'll turn it back to Ryan for some short closing comments.Ryan Lance -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer All right. Thanks, team. To wrap up, let me go back to how I started today's call. We're viewing 2021 as a catalyst moment, an opportunity to further own every part of the business and continue leading this sector [Audio gap] the aspect of the company to improve [Audio gap]. We're looking forward to sharing more on that and what that means for our shareholders when we get together with you again on June 30th. So now with that, let's open it up to Q&A. 