  OperatorHello, and thank you for standing by for JD.com's fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the meeting over to your host for today's conference, Mr. Sean Zhang, director of investor relations. Please go ahead.Sean Zhang -- Director of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you. Good evening and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings conference call. Joining us on the call today are Our Mr. Lei Xu, president of JD.Com; and Ms. Sandy Xu, our CFO. For today's call, Lei will kick off with opening remarks and Sandy will discuss the financial highlights. After that, we'll open the call to questions from analysts.Before we continue, let me remind you of -- today's call will include forward-looking statements. And please refer to our latest Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release on our IR website, which applies to this call. Also, during this call, we'll discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please also refer to our earnings release, which contains a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures. Finally, please note that unless otherwise stated, all figures mentioned during this call are in RMB. And now I'd like to turn the call over to our President, Mr. Xu. 

 



Lei Xu -- Chief Executive Officer of JD Retail [Foreign language] Hello, everyone. This is Xu Lei. Thank you for joining jd.com 2021 fourth quarter and full year earnings call. JD continues to deliver high-quality growth, a majorly evolving macro consumption, an industry environment in fourth quarter. Total revenues recorded at 23% year-on-year growth in Q4 on a high comp and grew nearly 28% for the full year of 2021. This shows that we continued to outperform the industry and contributed to the high-quality expansion of China's consumption. At the same time, we achieved a healthy profit growth in this quarter, thanks to improvements in efficiency driven by technology. Our progress demonstrates the increasing appreciation JD has earned among consumers and business partners. It also validates that good type of real economy-based enterprises have become important driving forces for growth in the retail industry and up and downstream entities. JD's business and investment strategies have always centered on users and business partners through different economic cycles, and this is our strategic determination and focus. First, in terms of users, we saw synchronized increases of both user number and quality. In 2021, annual active users reached $570 million, maintaining efficient and healthy growth, while the overall consumption industry underwent recovery.

 



 More importantly, we saw user the shopping frequency, range of categories purchased, and [Inaudible] improved in the fourth quarter. This was driven by our stronger user engagement and omnichannel initiatives. Here, I would like to reiterate two points of view that are shared support. First, JD's goal is not to chase high growth in single operating financial metrics, in fact, we focus on healthy and sustainable growth of our business as a whole. Second, as China's Internet industry developed into a more mature stage, the traffic-driven growth model driven by subsidies is being replaced by the use of quality and operating efficiency-oriented model. In such a new environment, we believe that JD's user growth and business operations are facing so-called [Inaudible]. Time is on our side. We have much to do as there are still many users need to be explored and satisfied. We always set higher spend to goals to third quarters. And for our business partners, we have been striving to build an open and integrated ecosystem to meet the diversified needs of both suppliers and third-party merchants. In JD's ecosystem, it is very common for brands to run both 1P and 3P businesses at the same time as different models bring them different values. We are glad to see that 1P and supply chain have become mainstream topics in this industry in recent years with more companies working on such initiatives. We are willing to share our experience to contribute to the industry's healthy development. However, we have to point out that we don't think 1P nearly means product procurement or even advancing payments for securing inventories. We believe 1P is about building a comprehensive system of supply chain management. The strength of the 1P model is to provide high-quality shopping experience to users and raise operating efficiency along the supply chain, so that business partners can enjoy better capital and inventory turnover. In the time of uncertainty, JD has helped our business partners to cope with external changes with better-operating efficiency and to lower costs, sharing stability and uncertainty with them. As a result, JD has gained increasing recognition from all kinds of business partners. In the fourth quarter, both the type and number of business partners in our ecosystem continued to expand. In particular, the number of 1P suppliers achieved double-digit percentage growth, while further expanding coverage across all product groups. The growth of third-party merchants also accelerated to the highest level in the past three years as we added more new merchants in Q4 than we did in the previous three quarters combined. We believe that a number of our business partners will continue to grow healthily in the future. Meanwhile, we have been constantly strengthening our win-win cooperation with our business partners. We further shortened inventory turnover days to the lowest level in the industry, despite the number of SKUs that we manage is now close to $10 million. Our accounts payable days also shortened, which helped improve business partners' capital turnover efficiency. As such, JD has helped millions of online and offline suppliers and SMEs to gain their fair growth opportunities and a reasonable profit in support of the real economy. Going forward, we will cooperate with more partners, generate mutual benefits, and facilitate each other's growth. The healthy growth momentum of our foreign retail businesses of the quarter, our further enhanced supply chain capabilities, and operational efficiency have put us in a strong footing to firmly execute our long-term strategy. Now let's take a closer look at the recent development of JD Logistics and new businesses JDL achieved a series of milestones in 2021. Firstly, if total revenue grew rapidly and exceeded the RMB100 billion mark for the full year. Second, the long-term investment in JDL made in establishing integrated supply chain logistics services started to bear fruit as we served more external customers and expanded its total addressable market. This also led to better revenue structure for JDL as revenues from external customers grew at a faster pace and accounted for over 50% of total revenue for the first time on a full year basis. Our business partners can better focus on their core operations and achieve high-quality growth as JDL's integrated supply chain logistics services helped to drive their overall efficiency and competitiveness. We are proud to see that revenues from customers using JDL integrated supply chain logistics services contributed over 70% of its total revenue for the full year. Moreover, driven by the expanding economies of scale and operational optimization, JDL achieved sequential margin improvement in 2021. In the future, JDL will continue to invest and upgrade its infrastructure capabilities and resources to provide larger scale and more diversified supply chain-based products and services to our business partners in China and abroad and further strengthening its industry-leading position as well as expand market share. On the new business, GMV, which focuses on lower-tier markets and took a series of iteration and optimization measures in 2021. By improving supply chain and fulfillment efficiency in lower-tier market, particularly for fresh produce and general merchandise as well as lowering merchandise circulation cost, GMV provided better services to customers and help the local merchants generate more revenue with higher efficiency and cost of savings. Since the second half of 2021, GMV has led the industry in proactively focusing on selected markets as well as our efficiency and user experience to drive local supply chain capabilities and refinement of the UE model. As a result, we are seeing better supply chain efficiency and cost structure in our selected markets. In particular, fulfillment cost per order continued to come down, while net promoter scores and merchant satisfaction levels further improved. We believe this is a sector that requires a long-term commitment over the next five to 10 years in order to build up supply chain infrastructure and gain consumer mind share. The inflated scale expansion driven by short-term marketing expenses are not sustainable. The recent industry trends also validates our view. JD achieved a healthy and sustainable growth across all business lines in 2021. We also opened up our supply chain and service capabilities to provide reliable and steady support to our business partners and consumers amid a challenging macro environment. JD has and will continue to develop new growth drivers for the industry and create greater value for the society. 2022 is the third year since the pandemic broke out. We are still in the midst of many changes and uncertainties and the competitive landscape in China is ever evolving and sometimes can be enhanced. Companies must grasp the core business logic and consistently deliver on their long-term strategy. In 2022 -- and also 2022 in the 19th year since JD's inception, throughout our history, we have never dropped long on short-term and local gains and losses. Our core business logic is clear. Our business model and strategic positioning have always revolved around consumers and business partners. The resilience of our business model has been proven many times in the past. We believe we have a highly differentiated core competence that will lead us to a healthier and more sustainable growth trajectory in the long run. The results we achieved in 2021 have also set a strong foundation for our growth and market share expansion in 2022. We truly appreciate all your trust and support along the way. This concludes my remarks. Now I'll give the floor to Sandy.Sandy Xu -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Lei. Hello, everyone. We are pleased to finish 2021 with another strong set of results in the fourth quarter. Well, 2021 brought many uncertainties in the macro environment, supply chain, and the consumption industry. We executed and delivered on our strategic priorities, continued to gain market share with a robust top-line growth, and achieved a solid bottom line. The results see volumes across the strength of our supply chain-based business model in creating value for both our users and business partners, and driving long-term sustainable growth of our business in 2022 and beyond. Our net revenues achieved 23% year-on-year growth to RMB276 billion in the fourth quarter and 28% year-on-year growth to RMB952 billion for the full year of 2021. We continue to demonstrate notable resilience in our business and presently outperformed industry growth despite the relatively soft consumption trend in recent quarters. Our funding top-line growth comes alongside our proactive strategic priorities, improving user engagement, and lifetime values. Our annual active user base reached a total of RMB570 million by the end of 2021. I think nearly 100 million users from a year ago. In particular, our quarterly average DAU grew over 25% year on year and hit an all-time high in Q4. This reflects the results of our strategic focus on improving user mind share and engagement. We are also gaining more wallet share from our expanding user base. As we increasingly become the go-to destination for consumers' regular shopping, LTM GMV per user has been steadily changing up over time and increased year over year in every quarter in 2021, even as we continue to expand our total user base. Furthermore, our JD Plus members surpassed 25 million in the quarter and average member spending increased up by double-digit percentage points from a year ago. By end of the average annual spending of Plus members was 10 times as much as that of non-Plus numbers. The encouraging progress in high-quality user growth and improving user engagement validate our relentless focus on superior customer experience over the years. Our revenue base saw further diversification. In Q4, our net product revenues grew at a solid 22% year on year, while net service revenues grew faster at 28% year on year against a high comparable base. Over a two-year period, contribution from net service revenues increased from 12% to 15% of total revenue. Our marketplace and marketing revenues exceeded the RMB20 billion mark in a single quarter for the first time in our history in Q4, growing at 27% year on year. This is a testament to our ongoing improvement in our platform ecosystem. Logistics and other services revenues grew by 30% year on year in Q4, maintaining hyper-growth momentum. Now let's turn to our segment performance. First, in Q4, our core business, JD Retail delivered both solid top-line growth and healthy margin improvement. JD Retail's revenues reached RMB250 billion in Q4, growing at 21% year on year in the quarter. For the full year of 2021, JD Retail revenues grew 25% year on year to RMB866 billion. Category-wise, we continue to see resilience in electronics and home appliance category with 22% revenue growth year on year in Q4. The power of JD's supply chain capability has been on full display against the global supply chain disruption. Our general merchandise revenues grew 23% year on year in Q4, outperforming the market amid a challenging consumption environment. Order volume in our supermarket category has been consistently growing at around 30% two-year CAGR in every quarter in 2021. The strong growth of our supermarket category has helped drive more frequent user engagement and continued the greatest number of new users. Our 3P ecosystem also saw encouraging progress as more merchants appreciate the increased value add delivered by our ecosystem. We are pleased to see higher engagement and spending from our existing merchants. It's worth mentioning that we added more merchants to our marketplace business in Q4 than we did in the first three quarters combined. Our omnichannel business has been growing rapidly as our offline stores and business partners including some -- including home appliance franchise stores, FreshStar and 7Fresh as well as our O2O initiatives achieved close to 80% year on year GMV growth in the full year of 2021. Exciting progress in our omnichannel business further demonstrates JD's position as a new type of real economy-based enterprise. It also bodes well for our growth in the coming years. Moving on to JD Retail's profitability. Operating margin increased to 2.1% this quarter, up from 1.9% a year ago, thanks to the expansion in fulfilled gross margin. On a full year basis, JD Retail's operating margin reached 3.1%, a 10 basis points improvement from a year ago and 32 bps improvement from two years ago. Our core business is well on track to realize sustainable margin improvement while optimizing for a healthy category mix and exploring new business strategies to expand our time in the long run. JD Logistics, or JDL, achieved remarkable milestones in 2021 and concluded the year with strong top-line growth and sequential margin improvement. Its Q4 revenues grew by 28% year on year to RMB30 billion. On a full year basis, JDL's revenues grew 43% year on year to RMB105 billion. This was mainly driven by the growth in the number of external integrated supply chain logistics customers as well as the increase in ARPU. Contribution of external revenues reached a historic high and accounted for 57% of JDL's total revenues for the full year of 2021. We are proud to see JDL deliver margin improvement while quickly ramping up its external business. JDL achieved positive operating margin in both Q4 and the second half of 2021. These results also demonstrate JDL's ability to both infrastructure utilization and improve operating efficiency while maintaining robust top-line growth. Revenues of our new business segment accelerated its growth pace sequentially to 45% year on year to reach RMB8.2 billion in Q4 and grew 48% to RMB26 billion on a full year basis. Revenues of our Jingxi business grew over 40% quarter on quarter in Q4, mainly led by the Jingxi Pinpin business, which regained growth momentum after we proactively focused resources in selected markets in Q3 last year. We are committed to better-allocating resources to improve our local supply chain capabilities, to empower a broader spectrum of our business partners, many of which are local SMEs and to serve new and existing customers. We will continuously drive innovation and improvement in the supply chain infrastructure while firmly committing to better UE for our new business. Moving to the consolidated bottom line. Our Q4 non-GAAP net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was RMB3.6 billion with non-GAAP net margin of 1.3%, up from 1.1% in the same period last year. Our full year non-GAAP net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was RMB17.2 billion, up from RMB16.8 billion a year ago. While we continued to deliver solid operational and financial results, we also increased support to our business partners in a time of uncertainty. We have consistently kept our inventory turnover well below 35 days, despite that the number of SKUs under our management continue to expand. We continue to share our efficiency gains with our business partners as we shortened the LTM account payable turnover days from 47 days a year ago to 45 days at the end of 2021. Our business partners highly appreciate the increased supply chain efficiency and faster turnover of cash and goods from their collaboration with us. As we are getting stronger, we are creating greater value for everyone along the supply chain. Our free cash flow for trailing 12 months this quarter remained healthy at RMB26.2 billion. At the end of Q4, cash, cash equivalents restricted cash and short-term investments added up to a sum of RMB191 billion. In summary, JD had a year of increased uncertainties and macro headwinds with remarkably resilient performance. This is a cumulative result of our 19 years of wavering efforts in building our core competence and committing to our right way to success business philosophy. I truly believe we have set a solid foundation for long-term sustainable growth. Looking ahead to 2022, while we remain mindful about the near-term macro volatility, we aim to continue to gain market share with a set of proactive sustainable, and high-quality growth strategies and at the same time, remain on track of our long-term margin improvement trajectory. I would also like to take this chance to welcome our new shareholders, many of whom are open to join the journey with us soon. This concludes my prepared remarks. We can now move to the Q&A. Thank you. 