  OperatorHello, and welcome to the Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. first quarter 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator instructions] Please note, today's event is being recorded. I'd now like to turn the conference over to Drew Andersen. Drew Andersen, please go ahead.Drew Andersen -- Senior Director, Product Management

 



 Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to the first quarter 2022 conference call for Old Dominion Freight Line. Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay, beginning today and through May 4th, 2022 by dialing 1 (877) 344-7529, access code 8164823. The replay of the webcast may also be accessed for 30 days at the company's website. This conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements, among others, regarding Old Dominion's expected financial and operating performance. For this purpose, any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words believes, anticipates, plans, expects, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. You are hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by the important factors, among others, set forth in Old Dominion's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in this morning's news release.And consequently, actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. As a final note, before we begin, we welcome your questions today, but we do ask in fairness to all that you limit yourselves to just a few questions at a time before returning to the queue. Thank you for your cooperation. At this time, for opening remarks, I would like to turn the conference over to the company's president and chief executive officer, Mr. Greg Gantt. Please go ahead, sir. 

 



Greg Gantt -- President and Chief Executive Officer Good morning, and welcome to our first quarter conference call. With me on the call today is Adam Satterfield, our CFO. After some brief remarks, we will be glad to take your questions. The OD team successfully launched another year by delivering first quarter results that included new company records for both revenue and earnings per diluted share. We began the year with significant momentum in our business and expected that we would continue to win market share in 2022. This expectation has already become reality, as the 32.9% increase in revenue was the fifth straight quarter where we recorded double-digit revenue growth. We also improved our operating ratio to a first quarter company record of 72.9%, which drove our seventh straight quarter of double-digit growth in earnings per diluted share. Our revenue growth for the quarter included a 17.4% increase in LTL revenue per hundredweight and a 12% increase in LTL tons per day. The improvements in both freight density and yield created operating leverage that allowed us to improve our cost categories as a percent of revenue which also drove the improvement in our operating ratio. Density and yield are the key ingredients to long-term improvement in our operating ratio and both generally require the support of a favorable domestic economy. We expect to further improve each of these two elements as we work through 2022. Demand for our superior service has remained consistently strong, and we do not see that changing in the foreseeable future based on recent conversations with both our customers and our sales team.

 



 We continue to receive feedback regarding the general lack of capacity within the LTL industry. This feedback is not unexpected, given that the LTL industry has seen a net decrease in the number of service centers over the past 10 years, at least for the public group, excluding OD. Customers also appear to be dealing with lower inventory balances than they would prefer, which can result in missed revenue opportunities for them. We have unfortunately heard similar stories from our suppliers and have seen little improvement with their inventories this year. We believe these issues are driving many new customers and increased shipments from existing customers to OD. Despite all of the general industry and supply chain challenges, Old Dominion has continued to maintain our service center capacity to support our customers' growth. This has been and remains an integral piece of our value proposition, and we are well-positioned to benefit from the continued strength in demand for both our superior service performance and network capacity. We have opened three new service centers this year and currently have approximately 15% to 20% excess capacity. These additions were part of our 2022 expansion plan that targets an additional five to seven new facilities this year. While our service center network is in good shape, we are continuing to work on the other two pieces of the overall capacity equation. We increased our average number of full-time employees by 18.5% during the first quarter, and we expect to continue hiring additional employees during the second quarter to support our anticipated growth. As the capacity of the OD team increases, we would like to reduce our reliance on purchased transportation. To accomplish this, however, we will need to increase the capacity of our fleet. While our 2022 capital expenditure plan includes approximately $485 million for equipment. We are experiencing delays with the delivery of new equipment. These delays were anticipated and limit our ability to effectively match the receipt of new equipment with the expected seasonal increase in our volumes. As a result, and similar to 2021, we will operate existing equipment that would have otherwise been replaced and use purchased transportation as needed to support our growth. As part of our effort to deliver best-in-class service for our customers, we remain committed to ensuring that each element of capacity is in place to support our ability to win long-term market share. As we continue to manage through the short-term challenges within the current freight market. We will also maintain our focus on long-term opportunities for our business by continuing to execute on our long-term strategic plan. This plan has helped us achieve a 10-year compound average growth rate in revenue and earnings per diluted share of approximately 11% and 24%, respectively. As part of this plan, we have consistently invested significant resources to support the doubling of our market share over the past 10 years. This has included a significant investment in our OD family of employees to help ensure that each employee is motivated and rewarded for providing superior service to our customers. We believe that consistently providing customers with superior service at a fair price and regularly investing in our people, equipment and network capacity to stay ahead of anticipated volume growth will support our long-term growth initiatives. As a result, we are confident in our ability to continue to produce further profitable growth and increased shareholder value. Thanks for joining us this morning, and now Adam will discuss our first quarter financial results in greater detail.Adam Satterfield -- Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Greg, and good morning. Old Dominion's revenue for the first quarter of 2022 increased 32.9% to a company record of $1.5 billion. While our operating ratio improved 320 basis points to 72.9%. The combination of these factors resulted in a 52.9% increase in earnings per diluted share to $2.60 for the quarter. Our revenue per day increased 30.8% as the first quarter of this year included one extra workday. This growth was balanced between increases in our volumes and yield, both of which continue to be supported by a favorable domestic economy. We continue to win a significant amount of market share as demand for our superior service and available network capacity to remain consistently strong during the quarter. As a result, the year-over-year growth in our revenue and volumes continued to trend above our longer-term averages. LTL tons per day increased 12% and our LTL revenue per hundredweight increased 17.4%. While changes in our freight mix contributed to the increases in this yield metric, the 10% increase in our LTL revenue per hundredweight, excluding fuel surcharges, reflects the success of our long-term pricing strategy. Our consistent strategy is designed to offset cost inflation, while also supporting further investments in capacity by focusing on the individual profitability of each customer account. On a sequential basis, revenue per day for the first quarter increased 1.2% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2021. With LTL tons per day decreasing 1.4% and LTL shipments per day decreasing 2.2%. Our revenue per day performance during the first quarter, both with and without fuel surcharges, exceeded our 10-year average sequential trends, although our volumes were below our 10-year trends. It is important to remember, however, that our 10-year average trends include the doubling of our market share. As a result, there may be quarterly periods where sequential performance may be below our 10-year trends despite solid year-over-year performance. The first quarter is a good example as we believe we won a significant amount of market share and produced solid profitable growth as a result. The monthly sequential changes in LTL tons per day during the first quarter were as follows: January decreased 5.8% as compared with December, February increased 5.1% versus January, and March increased 3.6% as compared to February. The 10-year average change for the respective months are an increase of 1.6% in January, an increase of 1.7% in February, and an increase of 5.6% in March. While there are still a few workdays that remain in April, our revenue growth continues to be very strong and reflects the favorable demand environment described earlier by Greg. Our month-to-date revenue per day has increased by approximately 28% when compared to April of 2021. We will provide the actual revenue-related details for April in our first quarter Form 10-Q. Our first quarter operating ratio improved to 72.9%, with improvements in both our direct operating costs and overhead cost as a percent of revenue. Within our direct operating costs, improvement in our salaries, wages and benefit costs as a percent of revenue effectively offset the increase in expenses for both our operating supplies and purchase transportation. The increase in operating supplies and expenses as a percent of revenue was primarily due to the increase in the cost of diesel fuel and other petroleum-based products. We improved overhead cost as a percent of revenue during the first quarter, primarily by leveraging our revenue growth and controlling discretionary spending. As mentioned on our fourth quarter call, we expect our core inflation, excluding fuel, to be between 4.5% to 5% for the year, with higher inflation in the first half of the year that is expected to moderate in the back half. We believe our fuel surcharge program is effectively offsetting the increased cost of our fuel and our yield management strategy is effectively offsetting cost increases in other areas. As we continue to experience cost increases related to our real estate network as well as with our equipment, parts, and repairs, it will be critical to maintain our focus on productivity while continuing to control discretionary spending to minimize the overall effect on our cost per shipment. Old Dominion's cash flow from operations totaled $388.7 million for the first quarter and capital expenditures were $93.7 million. We currently anticipate our capital expenditures to be approximately $825 million this year, which includes $300 million to expand the capacity of our service center network. We utilized $438.4 million of cash for our share repurchase program and paid $34.2 million in dividends during the first quarter. The total amount for share repurchases includes a $400 million accelerated share repurchase agreement that was executed during the first quarter. Our effective tax rate was 26% for the first quarter of 2022 and 2021. We currently expect our annual effective tax rate to be 26% for the second quarter 2022. This concludes our prepared remarks this morning. Operator, we'll be happy to open the floor for questions at this time. 