
OperatorWelcome everyone, and thank you for standing by for the Alphabet First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I'd now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jim Friedland, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Jim Friedland -- Director of Investor Relations

 



Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Alphabet's first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. With us today are Sundar Pichai, Philipp Schindler and Ruth Porat.Now, I'll quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today regarding our business, operations, and financial performance, including the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on those areas, may be considered forward-looking, and such statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release, which is distributed and available to the public through our Investor Relations website located at abc.xyz/investor.And now, I'll turn the call over to Sundar.

 



Sundar Pichai -- Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jim, and good afternoon, everyone.After a hard year, people in some parts of the world are beginning to rebuild their lives, businesses and communities. But recovery is far from uniform across the globe as the tragic scenes in countries like India and Brazil remind us. We are continuing to help support public health officials in their vital and urgent work. Our focus is on providing authoritative information. We are helping over 100 government agencies and non-profits worldwide, distribute critical information and billions of PSAs about COVID-19 and vaccines. And Google Cloud technology is powering a virtual agent to help make vaccination appointments over the phone, supporting 28 languages and dialects for those with limited Internet access. We are focused on doing our part to help.In some parts of the world, the economy began to rebound, which created a rising tide in the first quarter that benefited a number of sectors, including existing and emerging companies and partners. For example, data suggests that investment in start-ups is at an all-time high.

 



Our product releases are returning to a regular cadence. I'm particularly excited that our developer event, Google IO, is back this year, all virtual and free for everyone on May 18th through 20th. We'll have significant product updates and announcements and I invite you all to tune in.Today, I'll briefly mention a few highlights from the past quarter and go a bit deeper on Cloud; then, Philip will discuss advertising and partnership developments; finally, Ruth will cover the quarterly results.Quickly turning to product highlights of the quarter. Our knowledge and information services like Search and Maps remain at the heart of our mission to provide helpful and accurate information during important moments. People have turned to Google Search more than ever since the pandemic began. We see hundreds of millions of searches every day for COVID and related health information. People are also searching for jobs. To help them, job seekers can now use Search quickly and easily find roles that do not require a college degree and we are working together with the top employment websites to make the service even better.Maps: we'll be adding over 100 AI-powered improvements this year, such as indoor Live View, which helps you navigate airports, transit stations and malls using augmented reality.Last quarter, I mentioned Google News Showcase, our $1 billion investment in the news industry. I'm pleased to see continued momentum this quarter with new launches in the UK, Italy, Argentina and Australia. In Q1, we added more than 170 publications across 12 countries with more coming soon.With respect to YouTube, people continue to find all types of informational content, from educational videos to podcasts. In fact, according to a recent study conducted by Ipsos, 77% of respondents say they used YouTube during 2020 to learn a new skill. YouTube Shorts continues to gain popularity with over 6.5 billion daily views as of March, up from 3.5 billion at the end of 2020. We've added a new metric to our transparency reports, called the Violative View Rate, which will help us estimate what percentage of views on YouTube come from content that violates our policies. In Q4 of last year, YouTube's Violative View Rate was between 16 and 18 views out of every 10,000. This is down over 70% compared to the same quarter in 2017, in large part, thanks to our investments in machine learning.Let me also mention Chrome OS, which this quarter celebrated 10 years. It's been a valuable tool for millions of students and teachers during the pandemic. According to third parties, Chromebooks were the most popular device in K-through-12 education globally for the last year.Next, I'll move to Cloud where we continued to see strong performance across both Google Cloud platform and Workspace. Q1 revenue grew 46% year-over-year, with GCP's revenue growth rate, once again, meaningfully above Cloud overall. We continue to unlock the value of the Google ecosystem by signing multi-year multi-product partnerships with companies like Global Payments and Grupo Globo. And just yesterday, we announced a new Googlewide partnership with Univision, which is migrating to our Cloud, continuing to distribute content on YouTube and reaching customers via Play and Ads.In Cloud, there are three distinct market trends shaping our growth and driving our product and go-to-market strategy. First, we see very strong customer momentum in the Data Cloud. Our expertise in real-time data and analytics is winning companies like Twitter and Ingersoll Rand, who are moving their complex data workloads to Google Cloud. Our strength in AI and ML is also helping financial services customers, like HSBC, Commerce Bank, SEB Group, and BBVA, improve efficiency of payments, reduce fraud and risk, and deliver faster payment solutions. This past quarter, we released new functionality for BigQuery, delivering significantly better performance for business intelligence queries.Second, we are seeing customers wanting a robust infrastructure cloud in order to create operational efficiencies and reduce IT costs. We are winning large IT transformation deals with the companies that are migrating their data centers to Google Cloud. Multi-cloud remains a differentiator as it provides the easiest and most open development environment for customers like TELUS, allowing them to access and move their data between various plants.Third, we continue to deliver helpful innovations to enable hybrid work with Google Workspace. This includes digital tools for front-line workers like nurses and retail store workers, as well as new security offerings. These innovations have helped grow our revenue per seat and the number of seats in the last quarter. Workspace is being adopted by customers, including [Indecipherable] in healthcare, Sun Life in financial services and Airbus in manufacturing and aviation.Now, a brief update on Other Bets. Waymo's fully autonomous public ride hailing service in Phoenix is providing hundreds of rides per week. In San Francisco, Waymo began limited employee testing. I'm pleased by the progress here and look forward to Waymo's continued momentum under the leadership of new co-CEOs, Tekedra and Dmitri. Calico and its partner AbbVie announced that it has entered clinical stage programs for new drug therapies for cancer and neurodegenerative diseases like ALS, Parkinson's disease, and traumatic brain injury.Before I close, I want to mention that in 2021, in the U.S. alone, we plan to invest over $7 billion in offices and data centers, and create at least 10,000 new full-time jobs. And as we do this, we continue to make progress on our sustainability goals. We've matched our operations with 100% renewable energy for the past four years, and we are working toward operating on carbon-free energy around the clock by 2030, a far more ambitious goal that we hope will be transformative for the industry. Five of our data centers in Europe and North America are already operating near or at 90% carbon-free energy around the clock. We are also working toward our commitment to help one billion people make more sustainable choices with our services by 2022. One example of how we are doing this is the new AI-powered feature in Maps that will show the route with the lowest carbon footprint when ETAs are the same. You'll also be able to compare the carbon impact between routes.Finally, as we look ahead to the rest of 2021, our four big themes continue to guide us: first, building and providing the most helpful products and services; second, continuing to earn the trust of our users by investing in high-quality information and keeping users' data safe and private; third, strong execution as a company, particularly as we start to reopen our offices; and fourth, building sustainable value in our own business and for our partners.As always, thank you to our Googlers around the world for a great start to the year. To everyone, I look forward to seeing you at IO. Over to Philipp.Philipp Schindler -- Chief Business OfficerThanks, Sundar, and good afternoon, everyone. It's great to be joining you again today.We're pleased with the strong growth in Google Services revenues in the first quarter. Year-on-year performance reflects elevated consumer online activity, broad-based strength in advertiser spend, and lapping of the initial impact of the pandemic on advertising revenues that began in March last year.In the first quarter in Search, we saw sustained strength across most categories led by retail. We also saw strong performance in tech and CPG. In YouTube, we had phenomenal growth driven by direct response followed by continued strength in brand. We've seen great momentum in TrueView for Action ads, with a number of advertisers using the format doubling over the past year. In Network, exceptional growth was driven by AdMob and Ad Manager with particular strength in app campaigns. Google Other revenues were driven by growth in Google Play and YouTube's non-advertising revenues, followed by hardware.I would now like to take a few minutes to dive deeper into the trends we're seeing in our business. As Sundar touched on earlier, the pandemic is evolving in different ways across the world. Some countries are in advanced stages of reopening, others are facing reacceleration of cases. And there is everything in between. It's never been more important to help businesses navigate the pandemic as circumstances change.On travel, we're starting to see renewed interest from users as they turn to Google to plan their next trip even before they're ready to book. Every travel partners looking to understand where demand is going and we are helping them to find these opportunities through insights and automation. For American Airlines, for example, that meant using our insight tools to anticipate demand on untapped routes. These newly prioritized routes had significantly higher booking rate in Search this quarter compared to last quarter. Also just last month, we made it free for hotels and travel companies to list their bookings links, similar to what we did with shopping last year. For consumers, it means more choice. For hotels and travel companies, it means free exposure on Google. For advertisers, it means paid campaigns can be augmented with free listings. We are already seeing positive results across the board.Let me switch gears now and talk about retail, where we had a very strong quarter. As you know, we've taken important steps over the past year to accelerate an open retail ecosystem. We made product listings free, removed commission fees and opened our shopping platform to Shopify and PayPal. We're also helping retailers with some key opportunities, such as innovating an omnichannel as the line between digital and physical retail continues to blur, and tapping into commercial intent on YouTube and other surfaces.Let me talk about both. Over the last six months, people's shopping preferences have shifted constantly in response to changing conditions. It's not just online, it's not just offline, it's a mix. And that's our sweet spot with Search, Maps and YouTube. Last quarter, we talked about a surge in searches for available near me and curbside pickup. That trend has not changed. Searches for local and businesses are up 80% versus last year. Omnichannel is here to stay.Take Dick's Sporting Goods. Throughout the pandemic, they accelerated curbside pickup, pickup in-store and ship-from-store fulfillment options in Search. This approach contributed to 100% year-over-year increase in e-commerce sales in 2020. And just recently, they activated YouTube to build awareness for new store concepts. Michaels, the arts and craft store also activated their omnichannel fulfillment approach using Search and Maps. And to meet surging demand for art supplies, they used TrueView for action to tap into the vast number of arts and craft searches happening on YouTube. In 2020, their e-commerce sales were up 350%.We are also doing more to help merchants tap into the incredible [Indecipherable] commercial behavior across Search and YouTube. Google merchants can plug their product features right into their video action campaigns, and early adopters have seen huge results. Luxury cosmetics company Clarins HK added beautiful product imagery from their Google Merchant feed as an extension and saw 68% conversion rate uplift within three weeks. Any merchant can now light this up with a single click in our Google Merchant Center.Speaking of YouTube, we are helping advertisers address both brand and performance goals at scale, driving higher return on ad spend at a time when they needed most. We're only a few years in on direct response and we think there's significant opportunity for innovation that will improve the user experience and provide better ROI for advertisers. On the performance side, advertisers of all sizes are actually seeing incredible results. Like Globo Group, fitness company Les Mills was hit hard when their 20,000 partner gyms closed during lockdown. They accelerated digital and grew app subscribers by almost 7X with TrueView for Action.We're seeing strong growth in YouTube's brand business, fueled by global consumer trend from linear TV toward streaming video. With over 2 billion monthly logged in users and over 1 billion hours of video watched every day, YouTube is offering advertisers efficient reach to large audiences which are incremental to those found on TV. Large brands are benefiting from this trend. Taco Bell saw 27% incremental reach for their limited time offer campaigns. And Kellogg's saw incremental reach of over 30% for their recent Special K campaign.Before I close, I want to take a minute to highlight our work with partners. Sundar mentioned Google News Showcase. We now have deals with 600 plus publishers across more than 12 countries. Le Monde in France, DER SPIEGEL [Phonetic] in Germany, Clarin in Argentina, Evening Standard in the UK, just to name a few, and we're continuing to expand the program. We're also developing more valuable relationships with some of our strategic partners.By teaming up, we're able to build new experiences for our users while helping our partners innovate and grow. We've gone well beyond ads to bring the best of Google across Cloud, Play, YouTube and more to help them do just that. Sundar mentioned Univision. In the quarter, we also announced T-Mobile, Albertsons, Allianz and Munich Re. I want to thank our customers and partners for their collaboration. We've always said we succeed only when they succeed. And I also want to think of product, partnership, sales and support teams for their amazing work and innovation.I'll now hand off the call to Ruth.Ruth Porat -- Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Philipp.Our very strong financial results in the first quarter reflect both lapping the impact of COVID on our business beginning in March 2020, as well as the benefit of excellent underlying operating performance. My focus will be on year-over-year comparisons for the first quarter, unless I state otherwise. I'll start with results at the Alphabet level, followed by segment results, and conclude with our outlook.For the first quarter, our consolidated revenues were $55.3 billion, up 34%, or up 32% in constant currency, reflecting elevated consumer activity online and broad-based increases in advertiser spending within Google Services, as well as ongoing strength in Google Cloud.Our total cost of revenues was $24.1 billion, up 27%, primarily driven by other cost of revenues, which was $14.4 billion, up 25%, followed by TAC, which was $9.7 billion, up 30%. Within Other cost of revenues, the biggest factors are: first, content acquisition costs, primarily driven by costs for YouTube's advertising supported content, followed by costs for subscription content; and second, costs associated with data centers and other operations, offset partially by a reduction in depreciation expense due to changes to estimated useful lives of servers in certain network equipment.Operating expenses were $14.8 billion, up 4%. In terms of the three component parts of OpEx: first, the increase in R&D expenses was driven primarily by headcount growth; second, sales and marketing expenses were essentially flat, reflecting headcount growth, which was offset by lower spend on ads and promo, as well as on travel and entertainment; finally, the decline in G&A reflects the benefit of lapping the unusually high allowances for credit losses recorded in the first quarter of 2020 due to the impact of COVID, offset by charges relating to certain legal matters.Headcount was up 4,694 from the fourth quarter, including more than 1,800 Fitbit employees who joined us in Q1. Again, the majority of new hires were engineers and product managers.Operating income was $16.4 billion, up 106%. And our operating margin in the quarter was 30%.Other income and expense was $4.8 billion, which primarily reflects unrealized gains in the value of investments in equity securities.Net income was $17.9 billion.Operating cash flow was $19.3 billion, with free cash flow of $13.3 billion in the quarter and $50.7 billion for the trailing 12 months.We ended the first quarter with $135 billion in cash and marketable securities.Let me now turn to our segment financial results. Starting with our Google Services segment. Total Google Services revenues were $51.2 billion, up 34%, consisting of Google Search and other advertising revenues of $31.9 billion in the quarter, up 30%, with strength across most categories led by retail. YouTube advertising revenues of $6 billion, up 49%, driven by exceptional performance in direct response and ongoing strength in brand advertising. Network advertising revenues of $6.8 billion, up 30%, driven by AdMob and Ad Manager. Other revenues were $6.5 billion, up 46%, primarily driven by growth in Play and YouTube non-advertising revenues, followed by hardware, which benefited from the addition of Fitbit revenues. Google Services operating income was $19.5 billion, up 69%, and the operating margin was 38%.Turning to the Google Cloud segment, including GCP and Google Workspace, revenues were $4 billion for the first quarter, up 46%. GCP's revenue growth was again meaningfully above Cloud overall. Strong growth in Google Workspace revenues was driven by growth in both seats and average revenue per seat. Google Cloud had an operating loss of $1 billion.As to our Other Bets, in the first quarter, revenues were $198 million. The operating loss was $1.1 billion.Let me end with our outlook for each segment and our investments more broadly. For Google Services, for the remainder of 2021, year-over-year comparisons will be affected meaningfully by the impact of COVID last year with a greater benefit in Q2 from an easier comp relative to what you saw in Q1, and then beginning to lap stronger performance in the second half of the year. In the first quarter, we continue to benefit from elevated consumer online activity and broad-based strength in advertiser spend. It is too early to say how durable this consumer behavior will be as economies recover and restrictions on mobility are lifted. Within Other revenues, Play benefited from an increased level of user engagement starting in Q1 last year due to the pandemic, which we are now beginning to lap.In terms of investment levels within Google Services, we still intend to invest aggressively to support the extraordinary opportunities we see. That being said, in some areas, like travel and entertainment and marketing events, the pace of investment through the balance of the year may be affected by the pace of COVID recovery globally.As for Google Cloud, our approach to building the business has not changed. We remain focused on revenue growth and we will continue to invest aggressively in products and our go-to-market organization, given the opportunity we see. The operating results in Q1 in part reflects some notable items in the quarter: first, the lapping of the unusually high allowances for credit losses recorded in the first quarter of 2020, as I already mentioned; and second, lower depreciation expense due to the change in the estimated useful lives although the dollar benefit will diminish throughout the course of the year across segments. As we've noted previously, operating results should benefit from increased scale over time, however, at this point, we do remain focused on continuing to invest to build the cloud organization for long-term performance.In terms of Other Bets, we continue to invest with a focus on the long-term value creation opportunity.Turning to capex at a consolidated level, the results reflect ongoing investment in our technical infrastructure, offset by a slower pace of investment in office facilities, given the ongoing impact of COVID. Within technical infrastructure, servers continue to be the largest driver of investment as we continue to invest to support Cloud, Search, Ads and machine learning.Finally, with respect to capital allocation, our primary use of capital continues to be to support organic growth in our businesses, followed by retaining flexibility for acquisitions and investments. We complement these growth drivers with a return of capital. As we indicated in our press release today, our Board has authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $50 billion of our Class C stock.Thank you. And now, Sundar, Philipp and I will take your questions.