
OperatorGood morning and welcome to the Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call for D.R. Horton, America's Builder, the largest builder in the United States. [Operator Instructions] An interactive question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Jessica Hansen, Vice President of Investor Relations for D.R Horton. Thank you. You may begin.Jessica Hansen -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you Melissa and good morning. Welcome to our call to discuss our results for the second quarter of fiscal 2021. Before we get started, today's call may include comments that constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although D.R. Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R. Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R. Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R Horton's annual report on Form 10-K and its most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.This morning's earnings release can be found on our website at investor.drhorton.com and we plan to file our 10-Q, early next week. After this call, we will post updated investor and supplementary data presentations to our Investor Relations site on the Presentation section under News and Events for your reference.Now, I will turn the call over to David Auld, our President and CEO.David V. Auld -- President and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Jessica and good morning. I am pleased to also be joined on this call by Mike Murray, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Bill Wheat, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The D.R. Horton team delivered a strong second quarter, highlighted by 95% increase in earnings to $2.53 per diluted share. Our consolidated pre-tax income increased 90%, on a 43% increase in revenues to $6.4 billion and our pre-tax profit margin improved 450 basis points to 18.3%. Our net sales orders for the quarter increased 35% to 27,059 homes and our homes in the inventory increased 38% to 46,100.Our homebuilding return on inventory for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, was 31.2% and our consolidated return on equity for the same period was 27.1%. These results reflect our experienced teams and expanding production capabilities, our ability to leverage D.R. Horton scale across our broad geographic footprint and our product positioning, to offer homes at affordable price points across multiple brands.Housing market conditions remain very robust, and we are focused on maximizing returns and capital efficiency in each of our communities, while increasing D.R. Horton's market share. We believe our strong balance sheet, liquidity and low leverage positions us very well to operate effectively through changing economic conditions. We plan to maintain our flexible, operational and financial position by generating strong cash flows from our homebuilding operations and managing our product offerings, incentives, home pricing, sales pace and inventory levels to optimize the return on our inventory investments.Mike?Michael J. Murray -- Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerEarnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2021 increased 95% to $2.53 per diluted share compared to $1.30 per share in the prior year quarter. Net income for the quarter increased 93% to $930 million compared to $483 million. Our second quarter home sales revenues increased 41% to $6.2 billion on 19,701 homes closed, up from $4.4 billion on 14,539 homes closed in the prior year. Our average closing price for the quarter was up 4% from the prior year at $313,200, and the average size of our homes closed was down 2%, reflecting our ongoing efforts to keep our homes affordable.Bill?Bill W. Wheat -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerNet sales orders in the second quarter increased 35% to 27,059 homes and the value of those orders was $8.8 billion, up 47% from $6 billion in the prior year. We sold over 14,200 more homes in the first half of fiscal 2021 than the same period last year, supporting further gains in market share and scale. Our average number of active selling communities increased 4% from the prior year quarter and was flat sequentially. Our average sales price on net sales orders in the second quarter was $327,000, up 9% from the prior year. The cancellation rate for the second quarter was 15%, down from 19% in the prior year quarter. Our local teams are managing the sales order pace in each of their communities based on their lot position, number of homes in inventory and pace of home starts and production. Their increasing sales prices were supported by the market, while remaining focused on providing homes at affordable prices. We are pleased with our sales pace to date in April and remain well-positioned in this strong market with our affordable product offerings, lot supply and housing inventories.Jessica?Jessica Hansen -- Vice President of Investor RelationsOur gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the second quarter was 24.6%, up 50 basis points sequentially from the December quarter. The increase in our gross margin from December to March exceeded our expectations and reflects the broad strength of the housing market across our footprint. The strong demand for a limited supply of homes has allowed us to raise prices or lower the level of sales incentives in most of our communities. On a per square foot basis, our revenues were up 3.5% sequentially, while our stick and brick cost per square foot increased 4.5% and our lot cost increased 2%. We expect both our construction and lot costs will continue to increase on a per square foot basis. However, with the strength in today's market conditions, we expect to offset these cost pressures with price increases.We currently expect our home sales gross margin in the third quarter to be similar to or slightly better than the second quarter. We remain focused on managing the pricing, incentives and sales pace in each of our communities to optimize the return on our inventory investments and adjust to local market conditions and new home demand.Bill?Bill W. Wheat -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerIn the second quarter, Homebuilding SG&A expense as a percentage of revenues was 7.6%, down 70 basis points from 8.3% in the prior year quarter. The improvement in our SG&A ratio this quarter was better than our expectations and was due to our higher than expected volume of homes closed and the increase in our average selling price. Our homebuilding SG&A expense as a percentage of revenues is at its lowest point in the March quarter in our history, and we remain focused on controlling our SG&A while ensuring that our infrastructure appropriately supports our business.Mike?Michael J. Murray -- Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerWe have increased our housing inventory in response to the strength of demand. We started 23,700 homes this quarter, up 33% from the second quarter last year and ended the quarter with 46,100 homes in inventory, up 38% from a year ago. 12,200 of our total homes at March 31 were unsold, of which 700 were completed. We also had 1,900 model homes at the end of the quarter. At March 31, our homebuilding lot position consisted of approximately 487,000 lots of which 25% were owned and 75% were controlled through purchase contracts. 26% of our total owned finished lots -- owned lots are finished and at least 45% of our controlled lots are or will be finished when we purchase them. Our growing and capital efficient lot portfolio is key to our strong competitive position, allowing us to increase our production volume to meet homebuyer demand. David?David V. Auld -- President and Chief Executive OfficerOur second quarter homebuilding investments and lots, land and development totaled $1.7 billion of which $980 million was for finished lots, $440 million was for land development and $290 million was to acquire land. $270 million of our lot purchases in the second quarter were from Forestar. Bill?Bill W. Wheat -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerForestar, our majority owned subsidiary is a publicly traded residential lot manufacturer operating in 54 markets across 22 states. Our strategic relationship with Forestar as a well-capitalized lot supplier across much of our operating footprint is serving us well and is presenting opportunities for both companies to gain market share. Forestar is delivering on its high growth expectations and now expects to grow its lot deliveries by 40% to 45% in fiscal 2021 to a range of 14,500 to 15,000 lots with a pre-tax profit margin of 10% to 10.5%. At March 31, Forestar's lot position increased 62% from a year ago to 84,500 lots of which 58,700 are owned and 25,800 are controlled through purchase contracts. 63% of Forestar's owned lots are under contract with D.R Horton or subject to a right of first offer under our master supply agreement.Forestar is separately capitalized from D.R Horton and had approximately $500 million of liquidity at quarter end, which included $170 million of unrestricted cash and $330 million of available capacity on its revolving credit facility. At March 31 Forestar's net debt to capital ratio was 34.1%. Forestar has been active in the public capital markets recently, issuing common stock through its At the Market equity offering program, issuing new senior unsecured notes, calling for redemption of some of its higher coupon senior notes and extending the maturity and increasing the capacity of its revolving credit facility. With low leverage, strong liquidity, capital markets access and its relationship with D.R Horton, Forestar is in a great position to continue to grow their profitable business. Jessica?Jessica Hansen -- Vice President of Investor RelationsFinancial services pre-tax income in the second quarter was $107.7 million with a pre-tax profit margin of 47.8% compared to $24.7 million and 23.6% in the prior year quarter. The improvement in our financial services operating margin is primarily due to strong net gains on sale and better G&A leverage due to increased loan volume. For the quarter, 98% of our mortgage company's loan originations related to homes closed by our homebuilding operations and our mortgage company handled the financing for 67% of our homebuyers. FHA and VA loans accounted for 47% of the mortgage company's volume. Borrowers originating loans with DHI Mortgage this quarter had an average FICO score of 720 and an average loan to value ratio of 90%. First-time homebuyers represented 57% of the closings handled by our mortgage company in this quarter. Mike?Michael J. Murray -- Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerAt March 31st, our multifamily rental operations had eight projects under active construction and an additional four projects that are completed and in the lease-up phase. Based on our pace of leasing activity, we expect to sell two of these projects during the second half of fiscal 2021. Our multifamily rental assets totaled $394.4 million at March 31st. As we've mentioned, we are now constructing and leasing homes within single family rental communities. After these rental communities are constructed and achieved a stabilized level of leased occupancy, each community is expected to be marketed for sale.Our single-family rental operations are currently reported in our homebuilding segment. There were no sales of single family rental communities during the second quarter. However, we still expect one more sale later this fiscal year. At March 31st, our homebuilding fixed assets included $182.6 million of assets related to our single-family rental platform representing 27 communities, up from 13 communities in the first quarter. We now expect our total investments in our single and multifamily rental platforms will increase between $400 million and $500 million from the beginning to the end of fiscal 2021. Bill?Bill W. Wheat -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerOur balanced capital approach focuses on being disciplined, flexible and opportunistic. During the six months ended March, our cash provided by homebuilding operations was $138 million compared to $52 million in the prior-year period. $215 million of cash provided by our homebuilding operations was due to a deferral of estimated tax payments, granted by the IRS as a result of the Texas winter storm this year and the cash flow impact of this item will reverse in our third quarter.At March 31st, we had $3.7 billion of homebuilding liquidity, consisting of $1.9 billion of unrestricted homebuilding cash and $1.8 billion of available capacity on our revolving credit facilities. We plan to continue maintaining higher homebuilding cash balances and liquidity than in prior years to support the increased scale of activity in our business and to provide flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions.Our homebuilding leverage was 16.8% at the end of March, was $2.5 billion of homebuilding public notes outstanding and no senior note maturities in the next 12 months. At March 31st, our stockholders' equity was $13 billion and book value per share was $35.96, up 25% from a year ago. For the trailing 12 months ended March, our return on equity was 27.1% compared to 19.1% a year ago. During the quarter, we paid cash dividends of $72.7 million and our Board has declared a quarterly dividend at the same level as last quarter to be paid in May.We repurchased 4.5 million shares of common stock for $350.4 million during the quarter and the remaining outstanding share repurchase authorization at March 31st was $115.1 million. This week, our Board of Directors authorized a new $1 billion stock repurchase authorization, replacing the company's previous authorization. The new authorization has no expiration date. We are committed to returning capital to our shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases on a consistent basis and to reducing our outstanding share count, each fiscal year. Jessica?Jessica Hansen -- Vice President of Investor RelationsIn the third quarter of fiscal 2021, based on today's market conditions, we expect to generate consolidated revenues of $7 billion to $7.2 billion and our homes closed to be in a range between 21,500 and 23,000 homes. We expect our home sales gross margin in the third quarter to be in the range of 24.6% to 25% and our homebuilding SG&A as a percentage of revenues in the third quarter to be approximately 7.5%. We anticipate our financial services pre-tax profit margin of approximately 45% and we expect our income tax rate to be in the range of 22% to 23% for the quarter.For the full fiscal year of 2021, we now expect consolidated revenues of $26.8 billion to $27.5 billion and to close between 82,500 and 84,500 homes. We still expect to generate positive cash flow from our homebuilding operations in fiscal 2021. However, we are not providing specific guidance for our homebuilding cash flow this year as we prioritize augmenting our housing and land and lot inventories to support higher demand. After reinvesting in our homebuilding business, our cash flow priorities are balanced among increasing our investment in both our multi and single-family rental platforms, maintaining our conservative homebuilding leverage and strong liquidity, paying a dividend and repurchasing shares to reduce our outstanding share count by approximately 1.5% from the beginning of fiscal 2021. David?David V. Auld -- President and Chief Executive OfficerIn closing, our results reflect our experienced teams and expanding production capabilities, industry-leading market share, broad geographic footprint and diverse product offerings across multiple brands, our strong balance sheet, liquidity and low leverage provide us with significant financial flexibility to capitalize on today's robust market and to effectively operate in changing economic conditions. We plan to maintain our disciplined approach to investing capital to enhance the long-term value of our company, which includes returning capital to our shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases on a consistent basis.Thank you to the entire D.R Horton team for your focus and hard work. Your efforts continue to be remarkable. We are incredibly well positioned to continue growing and improving our operations. This concludes our prepared remarks. We will now host questions.