  OperatorHello, and welcome to today's Catalent, Inc. second quarter financial year 2021 earnings call. My name is Daley and I will be your moderator for today's call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to pass the conference over to Paul Surdez, vice president of investor relations. Paul, please go ahead.Paul Surdez -- Vice President, Investor Relations Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today to review Catalent's second quarter fiscal 2022 financial results. Joining me on the call today are John Chiminski, chair and chief executive officer; Alessandro Maselli, president and chief operating officer; and Tom Castellano, senior vice president and chief financial officer. Please see our agenda for today's call on Slide 2 of our supplemental presentation, which is available on our investor relations website at investor.catalent.com. During our call today, management will make forward-looking statements and refer to non-GAAP financial measures. It is possible that actual results could differ from management's expectations. We refer you to Slide 3 for more detail on forward-looking statements. Slides 4 and 5 discuss Catalent's use of non-GAAP financial measures and our just issued earnings release provides reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. Please also refer to Catalent's Form 10-Q that was filed with the SEC today for additional information on the risks and uncertainties that may bear on our operating results, performance and financial condition, including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic.Now, I would like to turn the call over to John Chiminski, whose remarks will cover Slides 6 and 7 of the presentation. John Chiminski -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Paul and welcome, everyone, to the call. Catalent's strong start to fiscal 2022 continued in the second quarter. Our financial results were driven by continuing strong growth in our biologics business, with additional support from our other business segments, as we work with our customers to deliver thousands of different products that help people lead better, healthier lives. The recent addition to our offerings of consumer-preferred gummy dosage forms for nutritional supplements through the acquisition of Bettera added another growth engine on top of our robust organic performance. The strong second quarter, along with continued momentum in the business, has led us to again increase our fiscal 2022 guidance, which Tom will review later in the call. Our net revenue for the second quarter was just over $1.2 billion, increasing 34% as reported or 35% in constant currency compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2021. When excluding acquisitions and divestitures, organic growth was 32% measured in constant currency. Our adjusted EBITDA of $310 million for the second quarter increased 39%, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis, compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2021. When excluding acquisitions and divestitures, organic growth was also 39% measured in constant currency. Our adjusted net income for the second quarter was $163 million or $0.90 per diluted share, up from $0.63 per diluted share in the corresponding prior-year period. The biologics segment, driven by continued high utilization of our drug product assets, was again the top contributor to Catalent's financial performance. The segment experienced organic net revenue growth of 59%, driving an EBITDA increase of more than $60 million over the second quarter of last year. Our legacy offerings in our softgel and oral technologies segment continued to experience a recovery from pandemic-related headwinds that we had anticipated and the segment results were further enhanced by the acquisition of Bettera. Organic growth was very strong as year-over-year demand for both prescription and consumer health products recovered nicely over the same period last fiscal year, a quarter that included pandemic lockdowns. Though net revenue is now higher than compared to the prepandemic second quarter of fiscal 2020, there are still a few headwinds and challenges driven by the ongoing pandemic, with pockets of demand still not at historic levels. However, we're pleased that our base business, strong growth in product development and robust prescription drug pipeline are more than overcoming some of the headwinds that still exist. In addition to our positive organic performance, we received a strong boost from the first quarterly contribution from Bettera, which added more than 20 percentage points of net revenue growth to the segment. The Bettera acquisition was an important factor in leading us to raise this segment's long-term net revenue growth rate to 6% to 8% and improving its margin profile. The acquisition is off to a better-than-expected start and we're seeing high interest in gummy formats from our consumer health customers. Our oral and specialty delivery segment also saw continued organic net revenue growth after facing headwinds in fiscal 2021. As with softgel and oral technologies segment, there are improving market dynamics across our oral and specialty delivery segment. These dynamics are most notable this quarter in our early phase development offerings and rising demand for orally delivered Zydis commercial products. Finally, our clinical supply services segment posted high single-digit net revenue and EBITDA growth compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2021. As highlighted last quarter, we opened new CSS facilities in San Diego, California and Shiga, Japan in the first half of this fiscal year and expect them to be long-term growth drivers for the segment. On our last several calls, I detailed our capital expenditure projects across the company most notably in support of our biotherapeutics and cell and gene therapy offerings. I'm very proud of our team's ability to navigate the challenges presented by the pandemic, including those presented by the global increase in cases related to the Omicron variant to keep these critical growth projects on track. With no change to the time line or scope of these projects, we thought it would be helpful to give you an update on the progress of our OneBio service offering, which we first announced in June of 2019. OneBio combines our drug substance and cell line development with our drug product and clinical supply services to help reduce development time lines, risk and complexity for our customers to get their therapies to patients all uniquely with one CDMO partner. Since we introduced this initiative, we've signed more than 20 development programs, creating an additional feeder channel for our commercial pipeline. Since originally launching as an early stage offering specifically for preclinical or Phase 1 programs, we've now expanded the offerings to support late-stage programs based on customers' needs. We now have several Phase 2 and Phase 3 programs in progress or signed. We also recently completed the first OneBio customer cGMP batch using our new small-scale filling line that we acquired in Bloomington in September of 2020. We continue to see interest from existing and potential customers who are looking for a single proven partner to help them reduce development time lines, risk and complexity in getting their therapies into the clinic and to patients faster. And this is, of course, not limited to our biotherapeutics customers. We have a long-standing history of optimizing the successful development of small molecules as well and recently launched a new service in our oral and specialty delivery segment called Xpress Pharmaceutics that is designed to accelerate the development of oral drugs through Phase 1 clinical trials. Our team will integrate formulation development and provide on-demand clinical manufacturing, regulatory support and clinical testing guided by real-time clinical data to reduce the time potentially by half to complete first-in-human clinical trials. I'd now like to make a few comments regarding our CEO transition plan announced last month. Catalent is in a strong position given its growth history and trajectory, its increased profitability and its proven success with strategic execution, including the transformation of the company over the last few years as we've grown our biologics segment and further diversified our portfolio. Catalent's offerings are not only balanced, they closely match the industry's R&D pipeline. After my 12 years at the helm, it makes sense to refresh Catalent's leadership, particularly when the board agrees that we have a top industry leader in Alessandro to advance Catalent seamlessly. I'm very proud of and impressed with our board for overseeing such a thoughtful and thorough succession planning process. Alessandro is uniquely positioned to lead a complex CDMO like Catalent. He started off at the site level over a decade ago. Worked his way up to larger sites. Then in multiple sites, rose up to become our senior VP of operations and eventually became an integral part of our leadership team in his role as our president and COO. Over the last three years, Alessandro has been running Catalent to a significant degree, having ownership for all of our business units, go-to-market strategies and technical operations. He has worked hand in hand with me on developing and executing our strategy and has been pivotal in all our decisions regarding acquisitions and post-acquisition integrations. With that said, I'd now like to turn the call over to Alessandro, who will walk you through our recently announced long-term financial targets. Alessandro?Alessandro Maselli -- President and Chief Operating Officer Thank you, John. And I'm very honored to be given the opportunity to lead Catalent. You and I have worked closely together for a decade and side by side over the last three years. I look forward to continuing to partner with you through the transition over the next several months and then again in your new role as executive chair, where you will be delivering the important values to the company in areas critical to our success. I'm confident that we have everything we need to continue to win as we embark on this transition. We continue to expand our global network, invest in growth, driving the capabilities, attracting new talent and accelerate our progress in operational excellence. These will all be critical drivers for Catalent to deliver our long-term targets. As you know, in January 2020, we provided investors for the first time with our fiscal '24 -- 2024 targets. Our 2024 net revenue target of $4.5 billion represented more than a 50% increase from our LTM revenue at the time. We have already achieved the -- this net revenue target in the last 12 months and our fiscal '22 guidance, as updated today, is already $300 million higher at the midpoint than our prior 2024 guidance. In addition, back in 2020, we also projected our adjusted EBITDA margin to expand several hundred basis points to 28% in fiscal '24, driven by increased EBITDA margin in the faster-growing biologics offering. We are right on track to meet that target, including an estimated 100 basis point increase in fiscal '22 over last year. Our business may have changed significantly since January 2020, when our biologics segment accounted for just a quarter of our net revenue. Now it's already up to 50%. This transformation of our business in the last few years is a result of our strategic investments in assets supporting newer therapeutic modalities in high demand, including viral vectors, plasmid DNA, iPSCs, other gene and cell therapy manufacturing technologies, messenger RNA, monoclonal antibodies and therapeutic proteins. Given this progress, last month at the J.P. Morgan healthcare conference, we announced we are moving past our fiscal '24 targets and we introduced instead the targets for fiscal '26, which are illustrated in Slide 8. As you can see, each of our segment has an attractive long-term organic growth rate target, including our largest segment, biologics, which has the faster rate at 10% to 15%. Our second biggest segment, softgel and oral technologies, is now up to 6% to 8% with improved margins following the acquisition of Bettera. And our oral and specialty delivery and clinical supply services segment are also slated to grow in the mid- to high single digits at attractive margin profiles. Key drivers to our underlying growth across the company are, first, the dynamic and growing spend for R&D in both large and small molecules. And second, increased utilization of our premium assets, manufacturing approved products. When we look at over our various segments' growth rate, we are very comfortable with our overall long-term consolidated organic revenue growth of 8% to 10%. Based on a combination of our long-term organic growth rate and anticipated M&A activity, we are projecting more than $7.5 billion in revenue in fiscal '26 or roughly a 12% CAGR from our fiscal '22 guidance as updated today. We believe margins will continue to improve over the next several years with an adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 30% in fiscal '26. It is important to note that our long-term strategic plan does not assume that the pandemic-related demand for vaccines will continue in the outer years. In other words, for these outer years, our overall revenue is forecasted to continue to grow even as we expect our revenue from COVID-19-related programs to significantly decline both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of overall revenue. We believe our accelerated progress toward our former fiscal '24 targets, which was strengthened by our highly successful products, exemplifies our capability to deliver for all our stakeholders and we look forward to now delivering on our fiscal '26 targets. Before turning the call over to Tom, I want to briefly address our Brussels facility and related 483 letter from FDA. We take all regulatory observations very seriously and work speedily to address all of them. While some remediation efforts are relatively quick. Others like in Brussels will take more time and resources. We are a patient-first company and we just form wall to external manufacturing operations while meeting the highest regulatory standards as soon as possible. So we have assembled a team of internal and external experts to deliver on this expectation. We are proud of our focus on operational excellence and quality. And now that leads us to deliver more than 70 billion doses of medicines for nearly 7,000 products on behalf of more than 1,000 clients across more than 50 facilities each year. The broad diversity of our product offerings and resilience of our business will create a key strategic advantage over our competitors. I would like to turn the call over to Tom, who will review our financial results for the second quarter and our updated fiscal 2022 guidance.Tom Castellano -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Alessandro. I'll begin this morning with a discussion on segment performance where commentary around segment growth will be in constant currency. I will start on Slide 9 with biologics segment. To highlight the company's transformation over the last two years, you'll see that the company represented 52% of our net revenue in Q2 of the fiscal year compared to 44% in Q2 of fiscal 2021 and 31% in Q2 of 2020. Biologics net revenue in Q2 of $638 million increased 60% compared to the second quarter of 2021, with cell therapy acquisitions adding 1 percentage point of growth. This robust net revenue growth was driven organically by broad-based demand across the segment, most notably for COVID-19-related programs. The segment EBITDA margin of 30.9% was up 60 basis points sequentially over the first quarter of this fiscal year but was down year over year from the record level of 33.5% recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2021, which is primarily attributable to mix, most notably an increase in component sourcing, as well as costs associated with our continued investment in cell therapy business. As we discussed in the past, component sourcing is where we source materials, components and other supplies for our customers. And it comes with two opposing dynamics, increased revenue but with margins well below the company average. In Q2 of last year, as we readied the additional capacity we were building, we were not yet manufacturing at large scale and therefore had a much lower contribution from component sourcing versus today's levels. Looking to the back half of the year, as we discussed last quarter, we expect the biologics segment revenue growth rate to decelerate in the second half of fiscal 2022 as we begin to compare against the higher levels of COVID-19-related production that started back in the back half of fiscal 2021. Also in the back half of the year, we expect the EBITDA margin for biologics to be impacted by costs associated with corrective and preventative actions we are taking in response to the regulatory observations out of our Brussels site. These remediation efforts will include a voluntary temporary shutdown as we replace equipment and revalidate the facility have been factored into our updated fiscal 2022 guidance, which I will review in a few moments. Please turn to Slide 10, which presents the results from our softgel and oral technologies segment. Softgel and oral technologies net revenue of $329 million increased 36% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2021, with segment EBITDA increasing 73% over the same period last fiscal year. The October 1st acquisition of Bettera contributed 22 percentage points to net revenue growth and 30 percentage points to EBITDA growth in the segment during the quarter. The organic net revenue increase was driven by growth in both prescription products and consumer health products, particularly in cough, cold and over-the-counter pain relief products. Segment EBITDA increased 507 basis points from the second quarter a year ago with organic volume growth and the addition of the margin-accretive Bettera business each contributing to the margin expansion. Slide 11 shows the results of the oral and specialty delivery segment. After factoring out the net impact from divestiture of our blow-fill-seal business and the acquisition of Acorda's spray-drying assets, organic net revenue grew 5% and segment EBITDA was up 24% over the second quarter of last year. The top-line growth was primarily driven by elevated demand for early phase development programs. You may recall that a year ago, we called out lower demand for early phase development programs as a result of pandemic-related lockdowns. So this bounce back is another strong indicator of a return to prepandemic activity levels. Organic net revenue growth was driven by demand for early phase development programs and orally delivered Zydis commercial products. EBITDA margin improvement was driven by organic net revenue growth as well as favorable comparison to our second quarter of fiscal 2021 when we booked charges related to a customer's September 2020 voluntary recall of a respiratory product. As shown on Slide 12, our clinical supply services segment posted net revenue of $99 million, representing 7% growth over the second quarter of fiscal 2021 and segment EBITDA growth of 9% over the same period. These increases were driven by growth in our manufacturing and packaging and storage and distribution offerings in North America. As of December 31, 2021, backlog for this segment was $529 million compared to $515 million at the end of last quarter and up 18% from December 31, 2020. The segment recorded net new business wins of $114 million during the second quarter compared to $118 million in the second quarter of the prior year. The segment's trailing 12-month book-to-bill ratio is 1.2. Moving to our consolidated adjusted EBITDA on Slide 13. Our second quarter adjusted EBITDA increased 39% to $310 million or 25.4% of net revenue compared to 24.5% of net revenue in the second quarter of fiscal 2021. On a constant currency basis, our second quarter adjusted EBITDA also increased 39% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2021. As shown on Slide 14, first quarter adjusted net income was $163 million or $0.90 per diluted share compared to adjusted net income of $114 million or $0.63 per diluted share in the second quarter a year ago. Slide 15 shows our debt-related ratios and our capital allocation priorities. Catalent's net leverage ratio as of December 31, 2021, was 2.8 times, below our long-term target of 3.0 times. This compares to a pro forma calculation of 3.0 times at September 30, which reflects both the Bettera acquisition we completed on October 1 and the debt we issued on September 29 in connection with the acquisition and the reported 2.6 times at December 31, 2020. From here, we will naturally delever, absent any further M&A activity, as our adjusted EBITDA continues to grow, providing us with significant flexibility to continue to pursue organic and inorganic growth opportunities. Our combined balance of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31 was $950 million compared to approximately $1 billion also on a pro forma basis for the Bettera acquisition we reported as of September 30, 2021. Moving on to capital expenditures. We continue to expect capex to be approximately 15% to 16% of our fiscal 2022 net revenue expectations driven primarily by growth investments in our biologics segment. Now, we turn to our financial outlook for fiscal '22 as outlined on Slide 16. Following the strong second quarter and solid outlook for the remainder of the fiscal year, we are raising both the low and high end of our financial guidance ranges. We are also tightening the range since there are just five months remaining in the fiscal year. We now expect full fiscal year net revenue in the range of $4.74 billion to $4.86 billion, representing growth of 19% to 22% versus our previous estimate $4.62 billion to $4.82 billion. We project that net revenue growth from M&A will continue to be 2 to 3 percentage points, principally driven by the acquisition of the Bettera. We continue to project organic net revenue growth in each of our segments for the fiscal year to be within or above the long-term growth range we have previously disclosed for each segment. For full year adjusted EBITDA, we expect a range of $1.25 billion to $1.30 billion, representing growth of 23% to 27% over fiscal 2021 compared to our previous estimate of $1.225 billion to $1.295 billion. Note that the continued strengthening of the U.S. dollar against both the euro and the British pound is expected to negatively impact our adjusted EBITDA by approximately $10 million in the second half of the fiscal year, the effect of which has been absorbed into our new guidance. We expect full year adjusted net income of $650 million to $700 million, representing growth of 18% to 28% over the last fiscal year compared to our previous estimate of $630 million to $695 million. We continue to expect our fully diluted share count on a weighted average basis for fiscal 2022 to be in the range of 181 to 183 million shares. This projection counts our formerly outstanding Series A convertible preferred shares as if all were converted to common shares in accordance with their terms. Finally, we also continue to expect our consolidated effective tax rate to be between 23% and 25% for fiscal 2022. Operator, this concludes our prepared remarks and we would now like to open the call for questions. 