  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. fourth quarter and year-end 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Drew Anderson. Please go ahead.Drew Anderson -- Senior Director, Product Management

 



 Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to the fourth quarter and 2021 conference call for Old Dominion Freight Line. Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay, beginning today and through February 9, 2022 by dialing (877) 344-7529, access code 4631573. The replay of the webcast may also be accessed for 30 days at the company's website. This conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements, among others, regarding Old Dominion's expected financial and operating performance. For this purpose, any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words believes, anticipates, plans, expects, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. You are hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by the important factors, among others, set forth in Old Dominion's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in this morning's news release.And consequently, actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. As a final note, before we begin, we welcome your questions today, but we do ask in fairness to all that you limit yourself to just a few questions at a time before returning to the queue. Thank you for your cooperation. At this time, for opening remarks, I would like to turn the conference over to the company's president and chief executive officer, Mr. Greg Gantt. Please go ahead, sir. 

 



Greg Gantt -- President and Chief Executive Officer Good morning, and welcome to our fourth quarter conference call. With me on the call today is Adam Satterfield, our CFO. After some brief remarks, we will be glad to take your questions. Old Dominion finished 2021 with outstanding fourth quarter financial performance that resulted in new company records for annual revenue and profitability. The fourth quarter of 2021 was our fourth straight quarter with double-digit revenue growth and the sixth straight quarter of double-digit growth in earnings per diluted share. We are encouraged by the momentum in our business and believe that we are uniquely positioned to win additional market share in 2022. We can do this by continuing to execute on the same strategic plan that has driven our history of long-term profitable growth. This strategy is centered on our ability to deliver a value proposition of superior service at a fair price to our customers. The OD family of employees worked through every challenge thrown its way in 2021 and continue to deliver best-in-class service while skillfully managing the 19.4% growth in our LTL shipments per day for the full year. I can assure you that delivering on-time without damage is a significant accomplishment with this type of volume growth. That is why I'm so proud that in 2021, we once again earned the MASTIO Quality Award, which recognizes us as the national No. 1 LTL carrier for the 12th straight year.

 



 Providing superior service not only allows us to win market share, it also supports our long-term pricing strategy. We have consistently focused on improving our yields at the individual account level to both offset our cost inflation and support further investment in our business. This approach has helped strengthen our financial position over time and allow us to do something that others in our industry have not, consistently invest in new capacity. We have historically invested 10% to 15% of our revenue in capital expenditures each year, and we expect to spend approximately $825 million this year. We believe consistent and long-term investments in capacity are valued by customers as an integral component of quality service and these investments are also necessary to support our ongoing market share initiatives. We simply never want our service center network to be a limiting factor to growth, which is why we have spent over $1.8 billion over the past 10 years to expand our service center capacity across the nation. We currently have approximately 15% to 20% of spare capacity in our network, although our 2022 capital expenditure plan includes another $300 million to further expand our service center capacity to stay ahead of our anticipated growth curve. There are, of course, two other ingredients in the capacity equation, our fleet and our people. We intend to spend $485 million for new tractors and trailers this year. We would frankly like to spend more, but we have been limited by several suppliers that are facing manufacturing challenges. We are fortunate to enter the pandemic with one of the youngest fleets in our industry. And as a result, we can continue to use existing equipment that otherwise would have been replaced this year. This strategy may continue to cost us a little more in maintenance and repair costs as it did in 2021, but we believe our current fleet and these additions will be sufficient to accommodate our expected growth. As we have done in recent quarters, we also expect to continue to utilize purchase transportation to supplement the capacity of our people and our equipment. The final ingredient and the most important piece of our strategic plan is the investment that we continuously make in our people. The OD family of employees grew by 20% in 2021, which including adding over 1,700 drivers in a challenging labor market. We expect that 2022 will be another big recruiting year for OD. While the labor market remains challenging, we are confident in our ability to add to our team due to our outstanding company culture. In addition, we offer a rewarding pay and benefits package and soon expect to make company record discretionary contribution to our employees' 401(k) Retirement Plan. Our long-term strategic plan is straightforward. Difficult for others to successfully replicate and build on itself year after year. Our success over the years has proven the flywheel effect of our strategic plan, and we believe it will span even faster in 2022. We are encouraged by the opportunities ahead. And we are confident that the disciplined execution of this strategic plan will produce further profitable growth and increase shareholder value. Thank you for joining us this morning. And now Adam will discuss our fourth quarter financial results in greater detail.Adam Satterfield -- Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Greg, and good morning. Old Dominion's revenue grew 31.4% to $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2021 and our operating ratio improved 270 basis points to 73.6%. The combination of these changes resulted in a 49.7% increase in earnings per diluted share to $2.41 for the quarter. Our revenue growth included a nice balance of increases in both volume and yields, which were both supported by a favorable domestic economy. We believe we are currently winning a significant amount of market share based on a comparison of our shipment trends with publicly disclosed information for other LTL carriers. Our LTL tons per day increased 14.3%, and our LTL revenue per hundredweight increased 16.1%. Our LTL revenue per hundredweight, excluding fuel surcharges, increased 9.2% due primarily to the success of our long-term pricing strategy as well as changes in the mix of our freight. On a sequential basis, fourth quarter LTL shipments per day increased 0.1% over the third quarter of 2021, which compares favorably to the 10-year average sequential decrease of 3.5%. LTL tons per day increased 2.4% as compared to a 10-year average sequential decrease of 1.7%. These 10-year average trends exclude our 2020 metrics for a more normalized comparison. For January, our revenue per day increased 25.7% as compared to January of 2021. This growth included a 7.7% increase in LTL tons per day and a 16.8% increase in LTL revenue per hundredweight. Our fourth quarter operating ratio improved to 73.6% and once again included improvements in both our direct operating costs and overhead cost as a percent of revenue. Within our direct operating costs, productive labor as a percent of revenue improved 320 basis points, which more than offset the increase in expenses for both our operating supplies and purchase transportation. The increase in our operating supplies and expenses as a percent of revenue was primarily due to the increase in the cost of diesel fuel. We continued to use purchased transportation during the quarter to supplement the capacity of our workforce and our fleet. And we expect to use a similar amount of these third-party services in the first quarter. We are very proud that our annual operating ratio of 73.5% surpassed our previous internal goal of 75%. As we execute on a long-term continuous improvement cycle for our operating ratio, we intend to follow the same successful approach that we have in the past, which is to focus on density and yield. The spare capacity within our ever-growing network allows us to drive additional volumes through our system, which generally creates strong incremental margins at the local service center level. We are confident in our ability to further improve our operating ratio and have dropped our internal goal another 500 basis points. As a result, we will now be focused on achieving an annual operating ratio in the 6s. Old Dominion's cash flow from operations totaled $340 million and $1.2 billion for the fourth quarter and 2021, respectively, while capital expenditures were $165.4 million and $550.1 million for the same period. Greg mentioned earlier that we currently expect capital expenditures in 2022 of approximately $825 million. This total includes $300 million to expand the capacity of our service center network, although we would increase this amount further if we identify additional properties that fit into our long-term strategic plan. We would also increase our expenditures for new equipment if availability improves during the year. We paid $23 million in cash dividends in the fourth quarter. While we did not utilize cash for share repurchases, our $250 million accelerated share repurchase program remained active during the fourth quarter. We utilized $691.4 million of cash for our shareholder return programs during 2021, and that consisted of $599 million for share repurchases and $92.4 million for cash dividends. We were pleased that our Board of Directors approved a 50% increase for the quarterly dividend to $0.30 per share in the first quarter of 2022. Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2021 was 25% as compared to 25.1% in the fourth quarter of 2020. We currently expect an effective tax rate of 26% for 2022. This concludes our prepared remarks this morning. Operator, we'll be happy to open the floor for questions at this time. 