
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Caesars Entertainment, Inc. 2021 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to Brian Agnew, Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance, Treasurer and Investor Relations. Thank you. Please go ahead.Brian Agnew -- Senior Vice President of Finance, Investor Relations and Treasury

 



Thank you, Erica, and good afternoon to everyone on the call. Welcome to our conference call to discuss our first quarter 2021 earnings. This afternoon, we issued a press release announcing our first quarter financial results for the period ended March 31, 2021. A copy of the press release is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at investor.caesars.com. Joining me on the call today are Tom Reeg, our Chief Executive Officer; Anthony Carano, our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Bret Yunker, our Chief Financial Officer. Before I turn the call over to Anthony, I would like to remind you that during today's conference call, we may make certain forward-looking statements about the company's performance.Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and therefore, one should not place undue reliance on them. Forward-looking statements are also subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. For additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in our forward-looking statements, you should refer to the cautionary statements contained in our press release as well as the risk factors contained in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Caesars Entertainment undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after today's call. Also during today's call, the company may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Regulation G. The GAAP financial measures most directly comparable to each non-GAAP financial measure discussed and the reconciliation of the differences between each non-GAAP financial measure and in the comparable GAAP financial measure can be found on the company's website at investor.caesars.com by selecting the press release regarding the company's 2021 first quarter financial results.I will now turn the call over to Anthony.

 



Anthony Carano -- President and Chief Operating OfficerThank you, Brian, and good afternoon to everyone on the call. We are very pleased with our quarter. 13 of our properties had EBITDA records in Q1, 19 had EBITDA margin records in Q1 and 20 properties had all-time EBITDA records in March, including four of our biggest properties. Turning to Las Vegas. We generated $161 million of adjusted EBITDA in the quarter and $172 million of property-level EBITDA, excluding Rio rent payments. EBITDA improved [Indecipherable] on a quarterly sequential basis. March was our strongest month where we generated approximately $90 million of EBITDA ex Rio rent payments and an all-time EBITDAR margin record of 43%. Total occupancy for Q1 was 63% with weekends at 85% and midweek at 52%. March total occupancy was 77% and April was 84%. Weekends in Las Vegas are sold out for the foreseeable future.Finally, casino mix as a percentage of our occupancy was approximately 40% during the quarter. Looking ahead, we remain encouraged by booking trends for the second half of the year. Group and convention room nights on the books for the second half of '21 versus '19, are currently pacing up approximately 20%, and we're seeing good rate growth as well. 2022 group revenue on the books is pacing up approximately 15%. CAESARS FORUM for all future periods has booked over 165 events, 1.6 million room nights and $633 million of revenues, 80% of this business is new to Caesars.We are very optimistic regarding the remaining three quarters of the year in Las Vegas and the return of the group and convention business and entertainment offerings that will drive incremental demand to the market. Now turning to our regional markets. Operating results improved significantly versus Q4 of '20 trends. On a year-over-year basis, regional revenues were flat and adjusted EBITDA was up 69%. Looking back to Q1 of 2019, revenues declined 14% and EBIT was 4%, resulting in EBITDAR margin gains of approximately 600 basis points. In March of '21, revenues for the consolidated regional portfolio declined 10% versus 2019, and adjusted EBITDA was up 5%. In our regional non destination properties in Q1 '21 versus Q1 of '19 and excluding Lake Charles, which is closed, revenues were down 8%, adjusted EBITDA was up 16%, and adjusted EBITDA margins improved approximately 800 basis points.

 



And finally, in our regional destination properties we are starting to see encouraging trends for this segment. Adjusted EBITDA for this group of properties on a quarterly sequential basis improved 110% and margins improved 980 basis points. We expect to see continued improvement for these properties throughout the remaining three quarters of the year. I'm extremely proud of our operating teams and their execution during the first quarter. The execution, coupled with our operating philosophy will continue to lead to sustainable improvements in adjusted EBITDA margin going forward. We are excited about the remainder of the year and look forward to sharing our progress with you on future quarterly earnings calls.With that, I'll now turn the call over to Tom.Thomas R. Reeg -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Anthony. Also, since we last spoke to you, we closed the William Hill transaction, it took a little longer than we had expected in the court hearing but we got to the outcome that we wanted. And now we control our own destiny in what I continue to believe is an extraordinarily exciting opportunity for the company. And as I get into speaking about it, I want to recognize Joe Asher, who built the William Hill business, and we got to know each other well in the original partnership. But as most of you know, Joe, you know me, I've done quite a few deals in the time we've been a public company, put together that original partnership and never met until the licensing hearing where it was approved. Joe built a phenomenal business from really very little in the U.S., and we're excited to build on the foundation that he and his team have built as we move forward.As you look at what that combined business did in the quarter, we were about $150 million of revenue. We were positive EBITDA that was despite the limitations of the transaction, where with the U.K. rules, we were kind of frozen in place. William Hill had some effectively lame duck brands in a number of markets that it didn't make a lot of sense to invest a lot of money in. William Hill with the U.K. parent and U.K. investor mindset that, that was more conservative toward leverage was not as aggressive as we expect we will be in this business. And so what we needed to move forward really was to take control of our destiny by buying William Hill and to come up with the capital to invest appropriately in the business. And as I get further into results, we'll get to the capital piece.But while we were working through the process, William Hill was working on rolling the Liberty platform out in all the jurisdictions where it is not already employed, we expect that to happen for football season. We're going to rebrand our books as Caesars, our app as Caesars Sports and tie our business into our Caesars Rewards database. And as I look at what's out there in sports and do the analysis of the numbers that we can see, there's some things that make us optimistic. There's a great correlation between spend and market share at this point, not quite so much for brand or other non spend categories. That's a good sign for us when I talk about the cash flow that we're generating right now.If you look at what our friends at MGM Michigan, in the quarter where they came from a position similar to where William Hill was to a leadership position in a market where they had a large database, that gives us a lot of confidence as we move forward. But we understand that we're going to need to invest in this business, both on the tech and the customer acquisition side, and you should expect a significant shift from us as we close the transaction and move forward. The -- and where I want to get -- where I want to move to now is in terms of the quarter, we reported a quarter like we report any other, you report your three months, your total, Anthony went through the numbers, but it really doesn't tell the story this quarter. I spoke on the last couple of calls about the demand that we expected was coming and the flow-through that we would expect to see, and I'm pleased to report I can give you some evidence of what's happening in March and April.I'm not going to get in the habit of disclosing a lot about the current month. But what's happening in our business is so different than the narrative that I see out there, that I think in this quarter, it makes sense to give you a lot of metrics about what's going on. As we started in the quarter, we had Illinois and Pennsylvania were closed. We had significant restrictions across any number of states, including Nevada. We didn't open Nevada even to 50% until two weeks were left in the quarter. So we saw demand build throughout the quarter as reopening happen. And March EBITDA was almost half of the first quarter number. So that brought us into April. And the fear that's been expressed to me is there's going to be some sort of diminution in demand as the world reopens. People that were coming to casinos, when other options open up, were going to go away. And what we said is we think that the segments that are not coming or at the time were going to come back and swamp whatever business that we were losing. And that's indeed been the case.If you look at April, obviously, these are preliminary results on May 4. Frankly, they tend to typically move up after our preliminary results. But in April, we did over $300 million of consolidated EBITDA as a company. That was more than 25% ahead of 2019 numbers. Consolidated margin was over 37%. That was 1,000 basis points ahead of 2019. In those numbers, Vegas' table hold percentage was 9%, which for those of you who follow the industry for a while is extremely low. Despite that low table hold Vegas has set another record in EBITDA margin for the market at 43.5%.If you adjust for hold in the quarter, Vegas EBITDA margin was almost 47%. Our regional run rate EBITDA is now over $2.5 billion, just out of regionals. The destination markets Anthony touched on it a bit, have been coming back. As an example, Reno had the third best month it's ever had in April. And I should say, when I talk about April, Easter fell in April, it's typically not a great month for the casino business.So these numbers happen during that time. As Anthony touched on Vegas occupancy was 84% in April, we expect that to increase in May and June. And if you look on a property basis in April, we had 36 properties in our portfolio that were over 40% EBITDA margin. 14 of those were over 50% EBITDA margin and one was over 60. And as a result, in April in our current run rate, we're generating over $100 million of free cash flow per month right now.And with that, I'll flip to Bret on our liquidity and capital.Bret Yunker -- Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Tom. Given everything that Tom and Anthony just took you through, it should come as no surprise that we will begin to aggressively pay down debt. Over the next 12 months, we intend to repay at least $2 billion of debt, and that will accelerate as we move into 2022 and look to divest the strip asset. This initial $2 billion of debt repayment assumes a conservative sale price for William Hill's non-U.S. assets with the transaction closing within 12 months. Importantly, this will in no way hamper our ability to continue investing in our brick-and-mortar portfolio and our sports and online business. With William Hill U.S. now officially folded in, our 2021 calendar year capex moves to $400 million to $450 million, excluding spend in Atlantic City and Lake Charles, which are covered by escrow and insurance proceeds.With that, I'll turn it back to Tom.Thomas R. Reeg -- Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Bret. And I'm not a guidance guy, but here's a few things I expect will happen as we move forward. Absent a change in the public health situation, I would expect us to print a quarter of at least $1 billion of EBITDA in 2021. I'd expect us in 2022 to be at worst below 5 times gross lease-adjusted leverage with a reasonable possibly of being below 4 times. On the sports side, I'm not going to make any bold predictions about where we're headed. We're going to put our heads down and do the work right now in front of us. It's all about operating acumen, and I'll put our ability to operate against anybody in this business, we feel very, very good about where we're headed.And with that, I'll turn it back to the operator for questions.