  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Jack Henry & Associates third-quarter fiscal year 2021 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Kevin Williams. Thank you. Please go ahead.Kevin Williams -- Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Thanks, Brandy. Good morning, and thank you all for joining us for the Jack Henry & Associates third-quarter fiscal 2021 earnings call. I am Kevin Williams, CFO and treasurer. And on the call with me today is David Foss, our president and CEO. In just a minute, I will turn the call over to Dave to provide some of his thoughts about the state of our business, our financial and sales performance for the quarter, some comments regarding the industry in general and how we're dealing with COVID-19 and some other key initiatives that we have in place. Then after Dave concludes his comments, I will provide some additional thoughts and comments regarding the press release we put out yesterday after market close and provide comments regarding our guidance for our fiscal year '21, which we also provided in the release yesterday, and then we will open the lines up for Q&A. First, I need to remind you that this call includes certain forward-looking statements, including remarks or responses to questions concerning future expectations, events, objectives, strategies, trends, or results. Like any statement about the future, these are subject to a number of factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those which we anticipate due to a number of risks and uncertainties.The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements. For a summary of these risk factors and additional information, please refer to yesterday's press release and the sections in our 10-K entitled Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements. On this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP revenue and non-GAAP operating income. The reconciliations for historical non-GAAP financial measures can be found in yesterday's press release. I will now turn the call over to Dave. Dave Foss -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Kevin. Good morning, everyone. We're very pleased to report another quarter of revenue and operating income growth and an overall solid performance by our business. As always, I'd like to begin today by thanking our associates for all the hard work and commitment that went into producing those results for our third fiscal quarter. For Q3 of fiscal 2021, total revenue increased 1% for the quarter and increased 6% on a non-GAAP basis. Deconversion fees were down more than $18 million over the prior-year quarter, which impacts revenue in the current quarter negatively. But as I've highlighted many times in the past, this is good news for our company if you take a long-term view. Turning to the segments. We again had a good quarter in the core segment of our business. Revenue decreased 4% for the quarter because of the reduction in deconversion fees but increased by 3% on a non-GAAP basis. Our payments segment performed very well, posting a 7% increase in revenue this quarter and a 10% increase on a non-GAAP basis. We also had a strong quarter in our complementary solutions businesses, with a 1% increase in revenue this quarter and a 5% increase on a non-GAAP basis. As I mentioned in the press release, our core sales teams had an extremely solid quarter and are now seeing core activity consistent with our pre-pandemic run rate. During the quarter, we inked 15 competitive core takeaways, which is greater than the one-per-week run rate we saw in 2019. In addition to our success signing new core clients, we signed six existing on-prem core customers to move to our private cloud environment. As we continue to push into the larger regional bank space, I think it's significant to note that of the 15 new core deals in the quarter, five were with multibillion-dollar asset banks and credit unions. As a reminder, regarding the topic of new core wins, at Jack Henry, we only call out new core deals when a banker credit union moves their entire core processing relationship from a competitor system to a Jack Henry core solution. We do not announce them as a new core win if they move from one Jack Henry core to another or if they simply purchase a new module from us. Think of it as a new logo on the Jack Henry core customer list that wasn't there previously. In addition to the tremendous success we saw with our core business this quarter, we continued to sign new clients to our new digital offerings. During the third quarter, we signed 42 new clients to our Banno platform, and we continue to see increased interest in this offering, as well as the rest of our digital suite. In our April 6 press release regarding digital momentum, we shared that we had more than 400 financial institutions and more than 4.3 million users live on the Banno platform. As of May 1, however, we have added several more financial institutions, and we now have just over 5 million users live. We continue to enjoy the highest consumer rating in the App Store, and we are regularly recognized as the fastest application in the industry. As I've said before, I expect our success in this area to grow as we continue to add new functionality and features to the platform. Regarding the ongoing migrations of our new card processing platform, as of the end of March, we have successfully completed the migration of all of our debit processing customers to the new platform, in accordance with the plan we've been discussing for more than three years. Here are a few statistics regarding this remarkably successful project. We did our first migration on October 30, 2017, and completed the project on March 26, 2021. That's 1,243 days. During that time, we migrated 879 customers and added 151 new debit and credit customers to the platform. We currently support 1,030 banks and credit unions on the platform, and we're adding new clients every month. You will start to see the larger positive impact of this completed project on our financials in the fourth fiscal quarter, as we have emphasized throughout the process. I'm very proud of our team and thankful to our partners and clients for working with us to achieve such a successful outcome. As you probably heard, M&A has become a topic again among bankers now that they're more confident about their operating models and the overall economy. Several of our clients have approached us recently to work with them as they prepare to complete acquisitions of smaller institutions. In fact, the CEOs of two regional banks currently processed by Jack Henry were quoted in an American Banker article last week regarding their desire to pick up where they left off before the pandemic brought everything to a halt. We expect our activity and what we refer to as the convert-merge area of our business to pick up again as we get into the summer months and new deals are announced. Speaking of American Banker, hopefully, you all saw their article last month announcing that, once again, Jack Henry has been recognized by their team as a best place to work in fintech. American Banker only recognizes 50 companies each year. And as you can probably imagine, almost all of the companies on the fintech list generate less than $100 million in annual revenue, pretty much in keeping with the type of company most people think of when they hear the word fintech. We are particularly proud of this recognition for a few reasons: first, the scores are based on surveys conducted with our employees by an independent agency; second, this is our fifth year in a row to receive this designation from American Banker; third, we are many times larger than almost any other company on the list; and fourth, none of our larger competitors have ever made this list. I think this recognition is indicative of the culture, entrepreneurial spirit, and commitment to developing truly innovative solutions found within the teams at Jack Henry. As you have undoubtedly already noted from yesterday's press release, we purchased a significant number of shares in the quarter. With a lack of good quality acquisitions for us to pursue and with our stock at an attractive price, we worked with the board to authorize an additional repurchase under the existing plan, which enabled us to buy 1,825,000 shares during the quarter. This significant share repurchase does not foreshadow a change in our strategy in this regard. We will continue to be opportunistic in our approach to purchasing our own shares as we have excess cash and the lack of acquisition targets that fit our strategy. Hopefully, you've all seen the press release we posted this morning announcing the upcoming retirement of our longtime chairman, Jack Prim. Of course, many of you know Jack is the guy who sat in this chair before I became CEO at Jack Henry. As I said in today's press release, Jack has given many years to our company as a business leader, a board member, and a friend to us all. He has had a significant impact on the success of our company and on me personally. And for that, I want to sincerely thank him on behalf of all of us at Jack Henry. Recognizing that Jack has been considering a potential retirement for some time, we were prepared for his decision and expect our process to allow us to fill the vacancy close in time to Jack's retirement date. We hope to have more information to share regarding a new board member and a new chairman before the end of June. Slowly but surely, our customers are settling into a new mode of operation with the anticipation of most COVID restrictions being lifted in the coming months. We're still operating with well over 90% of our employees working full-time remote, but we are committed to our return to office date of July 1. We are finalizing plans for office usage and staffing that will employ a hybrid work-from-home, work-in-office strategy. And we will continue to leverage remote sales and implementation tools, where possible. We still have some work to do and some things to learn, but I'm very optimistic about our ability to be successful as the work environment shifts again post COVID. As we look toward the end of our fiscal year, our sales pipeline is very robust, and we continue to be optimistic about the strength of our technology solutions, our ability to deliver outstanding service to our customers, our ability to expand our customer relationships, the spending environment and our long-term prospects for success. I look forward to seeing and chatting with many of you at our virtual analyst conference next week. With that, I'll turn it over to Kevin for some detail on the numbers.Kevin Williams -- Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Thanks, Dave. For the quarter, our Services and Support revenue decreased 6% in the third quarter of fiscal 2021 compared to the same quarter a year ago. However, adjusting that Services and Support revenue for deconversion fees of $4.367 million in the current quarter and deconversion fees of $22.8 million and revenue from divestitures last year in the prior fiscal quarter, on a non-GAAP basis, this revenue line would have grown actually 2% for the quarter compared to the previous year, which, obviously, as Dave mentioned, that has a lot of pressure and headwinds from our convert-merge revenue and also hardware in the quarter. Year to date, our deconversion fees are now down $33 million compared to the prior year, which, if you remember the guidance that we provided back in August, that is right in line with the full-year impact. Services and support revenue primary driver was data processing and hosting fees in our private and public cloud offerings, which continue to show strong growth in the quarter compared to the previous year. However, the growth in that line was totally offset by a decrease in our product delivery and services revenue, which, again, was due to our decreased hardware implementation revenue for on-prem customers; convert-merge implementations, which is also down to the significant decrease in M&A activity; pass-through revenue that is related to billable travel, primarily related to travel limitations by the COVID; and then, obviously, deconversion fee revenue for the quarter compared to the prior-year quarter, which was down almost $18 million. Processing revenue increased 13% in the third quarter of fiscal '21 compared to the same quarter last year. This increase was primarily driven by higher card volumes from new customers installed last year and also increased debit card usage from existing customers. Our Jack Henry digital revenue experienced the highest percentage of growth of all revenue lines in both Q3 and year to date this year compared to the same periods last year. Our total revenue was up 1% for the quarter compared to last year on a GAAP basis and was up 6% on a non-GAAP basis. Cost of revenue was up 4% compared to last year's second quarter. The increase was primarily due to higher costs associated with our card processing platform and higher personnel costs related to increased headcount at March 31 compared to a year ago. The increase in costs was partially offset by travel expense savings as a result of COVID travel limitations. Our research and development expense decreased 3% for the third quarter of fiscal 2021 over the prior fiscal year. This decrease was primarily due to a higher percentage of costs being capitalized for product development as we continue to invest in our products this quarter compared to a year ago. Our SG&A expense decreased 6% in the second quarter of fiscal '21 over the same quarter, and this decrease was primarily due to travel-related savings. Our reported consolidated operating margins decreased from 21.4% last year to 21% this year, which is primarily due to the various revenue headwinds already pointed out and increased costs. However, on a non-GAAP basis, our operating margins increased nicely, and we saw a strong margin expansion from 18.1% last year to 20.3% this year primarily due to the items already mentioned. Our payments segment margins were impacted by deconversion fees in the quarter. But on a non-GAAP basis, our payments margin improved slightly with the completion of the platform migration. Both our core and complementary segments had a decrease in GAAP margins, but both of them had a nice increase in non-GAAP margins. So our underlying operations continue to be very strong as we move forward through the year. The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2021 was 21.5%, up from 19.7% in the same quarter a year ago. This increase in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the change in the timing of the release of respective reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from varying statute limitation periods. Our net income was $71.4 million in the third quarter, compared to $73.9 million last year, with earnings per share of $0.95 for the current quarter, compared to $0.96 last year. For cash flow, our total amortization increased 3% year to date compared to last year due to capitalized projects being placed in service in the prior year. Included in this total amortization is the amortization of intangibles related to acquisitions, which decreased $13.3 million -- or to $13.3 million this year, compared to $15.4 million last year. Depreciation is up 3% due to the -- they're primarily due to capex in the previous year and those assets being placed in service. As Dave mentioned, we've purchased 2.5 million shares year to date for $384.4 million, and we paid dividends of just right at $100 million, for a total return to shareholders of $484.2 million year to date. Our operating cash flow was $266.3 million for the first nine months of the fiscal year, which is down a little from $276 million last year, which is also impacted by the significant decrease in deconversion fees this year to date compared to last year. We invested $116.7 million back into our company through capex and capitalized software year to date. Our free cash flow, which is operating cash flow less capex and cap software and then adding back net proceeds from disposal of assets, is $155.8 million year to date. A couple of comments on our balance sheet. Our cash position is $70.1 million, compared to $109.5 million a year ago, so we still have decent cash for operations. We did draw down $200 million on our revolver during the quarter to fund our stock buybacks, but we have no other long-term debt on our balance sheet other than operating leases. Our return on invested capital for our trailing 12 months is 19.2%, and our return on equity for the trailing 12 months is 20.9%, which is very solid. For update on our guidance, we did update both our GAAP and non-GAAP revenue guidance in the press release yesterday for the full fiscal year. However, just to be clear, this guidance continues to be based on the assumption that the country continues to open up and the economy continues to improve. But if things do go differently, then obviously, this guidance will be revised. We've been very consistent with our GAAP guidance that revenue from deconversion fees would be a decrease of approximately $33 million compared to last year, which we hit that mark, as I previously said, during our fiscal Q3. And it now appears the deconversion revenue will actually be down by another $4 million in Q4 compared to the previous year, for a total decrease of approximately $37 million in deconversion fees compared to the last fiscal year. We continue to see no immediate M&A activity that would drive deconversion revenue at this point, which, in the short-term, will continue to hurt our revenue growth for the fiscal year. But in long term, as we have always said, that we don't like deconversion revenue as we would much rather keep the customer and the revenue for the long term. This means, based on the GAAP revenue guidance provided in the press release impacted by the decreased deconversion fees, we expect GAAP revenue to grow -- growth in FY '21 to be 3% to 3.5%. The adjustments between GAAP and non-GAAP revenue guidance for FY '21 is the decrease in deconversion fees compared to the previous year and the small revenue impact from the Cruise divestiture during Q2 that was removed from FY '20 for comparison purposes. For non-GAAP revenue growth guidance provided in the release, we are now guiding to approximately 6% growth due to the ongoing headwinds previously discussed in the various lines of revenue. So we still anticipate we're going to grow 6% this year, which means Q4 is going to have a really nice revenue growth to get our slightly less than 5% year-to-date up to that 6% for the year. We anticipate GAAP operating margins for the full year of FY '21 to be down slightly at about 22% compared to last year, for all the reasons we discussed. And non-GAAP margins should actually improve slightly compared to last year for the entire fiscal year, similar to what we've seen through the first three quarters. Our effective tax rate for the full year of FY '21 should be in line with FY '20 rate at around 22%, assuming there are no federal or state tax law changes between now and the end of the year that would impact our fiscal year. We've also increased our full-year EPS guidance for FY '21 again this quarter, which we provided last quarter a range of $3.85 to $3.90. We are now updating our EPS guidance for FY '21 to a range of $3.98 to $4.02. The increase in guidance is primarily due to expense control, margin improvement for the year, and continued improved efficiencies, which is offsetting the impact of deconversion fees. With that, this concludes our opening comments, and we are now ready to take questions. Brandy, will you please open the call lines up for questions? 