  OperatorGood morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Thermo Fisher Scientific 2022 first quarter conference call. My name is Nadia, and I'll be coordinating the call today. [Operator instructions] I would like to introduce our moderator for the call, Mr. Rafael Tejada, vice president, investor relations. Mr. Tejada, you may begin the call.Rafael Tejada -- Vice President, Investor Relations

 



 Good morning, and thank you for joining us. On the call with me today is Marc Casper, our chairman, president, and chief executive officer; and Stephen Williamson, senior vice president and chief financial officer. Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived on the Investors section of our website, thermofisher.com, under the heading news and events until May 13th, 2022. A copy of the press release of our first quarter 2022 earnings is available in the investors section of our website under the heading financials. So before we begin, let me briefly cover our safe harbor statement. Various remarks that we may make about the company's future expectations, plans, and prospects constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including those discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K, which is on file with the SEC, and available in the Investors section of our website under the heading Financials, SEC Filings. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change.Therefore, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to today. Also during this call, we will be referring to certain financial measures not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available in the press release of our first quarter and full year 2022 earnings, and also in the investors' section of our website under the heading financials. So with that, I'll now turn the call over to Marc. Marc Casper -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thank you, Raf. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us today for our first quarter call. As you saw in our press release, we had a very strong start to the year. We delivered another quarter of excellent financial performance. Our core business is performing very well. That strength is broad-based, including PPD, our clinical research business, where the integration is going smoothly, and we're even more excited about the opportunities we have to further enable the success of our pharma and biotech customers. As I reflect on the quarter, I'm very pleased with the team's great execution and the share gain we saw across our business. Our continued success is the result of our proven growth strategy and our PPI Business System, which continues to be a differentiator for us. It enables our team to further strengthen our company by finding a better way every day. When I think about the macro events, much has changed since the start of the year, the war in Ukraine, rising inflation, COVID lockdowns in China. What hasn't changed is our ability to navigate a dynamic landscape and deliver exceptional performance. You'll see that in our first quarter results and outlook for the year. So let me recap the financials. Our revenue in the quarter grew 19% year over year to $11.82 billion. Our adjusted operating income was $3.45 billion. Our adjusted operating margin in the first quarter was 29.2%, and we delivered another quarter of strong adjusted EPS performance, achieving $7.25 per share.

 



 Let me now give you color on the performance by our end markets. Building on the momentum from 2021, we delivered excellent performance to start the year. Our outstanding results this quarter were due to our team's strong execution, good market conditions, and share gain. We also had meaningful contribution from COVID-19 testing as we continue to support our customers' needs. Starting with pharma and biotech. We had another outstanding quarter of performance, delivering growth in the mid-teens. We saw broad-based strength in this end market as our customers value our trusted partner status. In academics and government, we grew in the mid-single digits during the quarter, with good growth in biosciences, electron microscopy, and our research and safety market channel. Turning to industrial and applied. We grew in the mid-teens during the quarter. We saw strong growth in all of our analytical instrument businesses. Electron microscopy, chromatography, mass spectrometry, and chemical analysis as well as in the research and safety market channel. And finally, in diagnostics and healthcare, Q1 revenue declined in the mid-teens. In the core business, we saw a strong growth in clinical diagnostics, transplant diagnostics, and the healthcare market channel. During the quarter, the team executed really well to support COVID-19 testing needs. Let me now provide an update on the progress we made in Q1, executing our proven growth strategy, which consists of three elements: a commitment to high-impact innovation, scaling the high-growth and emerging markets, and a unique value proposition to our customers. We made great progress in the first quarter, and I'll share just a few of the highlights. Starting with the first pillar. It was a fantastic quarter for high-impact innovation as we launched a number of new products that will help our customers break new ground in their important work. A few of the highlights. In our genetic sciences business, we launched our Applied Biosystems SeqStudio Flex Series genetic analyzer to improve clinical research and advanced scientific discovery. In Analytical Instruments, we launched four new gas chromatography and GC-MS instruments to advance analytical testing for food, environmental, industrial, and pharmaceutical applications. This includes the Thermo Scientific TRACE 1600 Series gas chromatograph, which incorporates enhanced automation for instrument health monitoring and offers flexibility for customers to optimize their workflow. In bioproduction, we launched the Gibco CTS Xenon electroporation system for the efficient delivery of genetic material into cells as part of cell therapy manufacturing. In addition, we signed an agreement with precision diagnostic company, Oncocyte, to develop two new assays for our Ion Torrent Genexus System to improve cancer tumor profiling and advanced precision medicine. This is just a small sampling of the outstanding innovation going on across our company, enabling our customer success and strengthening our position as the world leader in serving science. The second pillar of our growth strategy is leveraging our scale and high growth in emerging markets to create a differentiated experience for our customers. We had strong performance in these markets, including China, which grew double digits in the quarter. Our Analytical Instruments business are being used around the world to advance scientific research, including in the high-growth and emerging markets. For example, in Beijing, the National Institute of Biological Sciences is using our mass spectrometers to accelerate their research in structural biology. And in Korea, our electron microscopes are enabling researchers at Pusan National University to establish a bioimaging center to accelerate virus research. Now turning to the third pillar of our growth strategy, our unique customer value proposition. We continue to enhance our capabilities, so we can be an even stronger partner and industry leader. To help our customers advance cell and gene therapies, we opened a new biorepository in Vacaville, California. This facility will provide specialized biological sample storage and cell therapy logistics. In bioproduction, our network expansion is going well. During the quarter, we brought on additional capacity online for single-use bioprocess containers and cell culture media. Reflecting our trusted partner status with pharma and biotech customers, we entered a 15-year strategic collaboration agreement with Moderna to establish large-scale U.S. manufacturing of mRNA-based vaccine and therapies. Under this agreement, we'll provide dedicated capacity for a range of aseptic fill/finish services along with inspection, labeling, and final packaging. During the quarter, I had the chance to visit our Greenville, North Carolina campus where we've invested significantly over the past couple of years to expand our capacity and capabilities, and the new building that will support Moderna's pipeline. It's truly impressive. Now turning to capital deployment. I'd like to share some of the other steps we've taken to further strengthen our customer value proposition and build our future. We continue to successfully execute our disciplined capital deployment strategy, which is a combination of strategic M&A and returning capital to our shareholders. Given this was the first full quarter of contribution from PPD, our new clinical research business, I'd like to update you on our progress. The business is performing very well and running ahead of the deal model. The strong start and outlook for the year is allowing us to increase our expectations for the business. Stephen will cover these details in his remarks. In terms of the integration, it's going very smoothly. Our customers are seeing the value of the combination, and we have realized our first commercial synergies, securing new authorizations from pharma and biotech customers who value the combination of our capabilities. This bodes well for our long-term revenue synergies. To further fuel growth and support increasing demand from our biopharma customers, we've also invested to expand our clinical research operations in Richmond, Virginia. Finally, I've been super impressed with the team as I've visited different sites. And together, we're taking the business to the next level as part of Thermo Fisher to become an even stronger partner for our customers. As I mentioned on our last call, we closed on PeproTech, a leading provider of bioscience reagents late last year. I'm pleased to note that, that business is off to a great start, and the integration is going incredibly well. During Q1, we completed a small bolt-on deal in analytical instruments to enhance our materials and structural analysis offering for our customers. And during the quarter, we also returned significant capital to our shareholders, repurchasing $2 billion of our shares and increasing our dividend by 15%. Turning now to a brief update on our ESG initiatives. We marked a significant milestone during the first quarter, exceeding 1 million readily recyclable paper coolers shipped to transport cold chain products without the use of traditional polystyrene foam coolers. This builds on our commitment to environmental stewardship and enabling broad adoption of sustainable solutions. In addition, we recently announced our partnership with the University of California in San Diego to advance innovation, sustainability, and talent development. This 10-year partnership will establish a network of technology centers, focused on accelerating collaborative research and advancing innovations in a range of scientific fields. It will also accelerate educational opportunities, especially for under-resourced students by engaging in joint STEM and community outreach programs and supporting curriculum development, scholarships, fellowships, career mentoring, and recruitment. Before covering guidance, I'd like to end my comments with a reflection on the events that are impacting our colleagues, and the world at large. As always, our top priority is the health and safety of our colleagues. We're supporting our colleagues displaced from Ukraine with a variety of needs. And together with our colleagues globally, we've made substantial donations to relief organizations responding in Ukraine and enabling safe-haven countries. In China, where many of our colleagues are facing lengthy lockdowns and disruption in daily life due to the pandemic, we're providing care packages to residents in Shanghai who have faced limited food supplies. We also recognize that inflation is challenging for our team, and we're going to provide a special payment this summer to our colleagues. Now I'd like to review our 2022 guidance at a high level, and then Stephen will take you through the details. We are meaningfully raising our full year guidance. We're increasing our revenue guidance by $450 million to $42.45 billion, which would result in 8% reported revenue growth over 2021. And we're raising our 2022 adjusted EPS guidance by $0.22 to $22.65 per share. This guidance factors in our excellent Q1, includes a very strong core business outlook for the remainder of the year, and it incorporates the expected impact of the recent macroeconomic dynamics. Our Q1 results and our increased guide for the year reflects how well the team is navigating in these dynamic times. So to summarize our key takeaways from the first quarter. Our outstanding results in Q1 were driven by our proven growth strategy and PPI Business System. Our business is performing very well, and we're gaining market share. The PPD acquisition is generating strong returns, and we're really well-positioned to continue to differentiate ourselves for all of our stakeholders. All of this has enabled us to raise our outlook for 2022, and further solidify our incredibly bright future. With that, I'll now hand the call over to our CFO, Stephen Williamson. Stephen?Stephen Williamson -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Marc, and good morning, everyone. As you saw in our press release, we started the year with an excellent Q1. In the quarter, we delivered 16% core organic growth. $1.68 billion of COVID-19 testing revenue, $7.25 of adjusted earnings per share, and $1.6 billion of free cash flow. Revenue in Q1 was just over $1 billion higher than we'd incorporated in our previous 2022 guidance, with $700 million, driven by a very strong start to the year for the core business, and just under $400 million from testing. The strength of the core was broad-based across businesses, end markets, and geographies. Our PPI business system enabled us to generate very strong pull-through on this revenue. And adjusted EPS for Q1 was $0.84 higher than included in our previous guidance. So broad-based beat to start the year. Let me now provide you with some more details on our performance, beginning with our earnings results. And as I mentioned, we delivered $7.25 of adjusted EPS in Q1, up 1% versus the prior year. GAAP EPS in the quarter was $5.61, down 5% versus the prior year. On the topline, our Q1 reported revenue grew 19% year over year. The components of our Q1 reported revenue increase included 3% organic revenue growth and 18% contribution from acquisitions and a headwind of 2% from foreign exchange. Core organic revenue growth in the quarter was 16%. And as I mentioned, we delivered $1.68 billion of COVID-19 testing revenue. Turning to our organic revenue performance by geography. The organic growth rates by region are skewed by the COVID-19 testing revenue in the current and prior year. In Q1, North America grew in the low single digits. Europe was flat. Asia Pacific grew in the mid-teens, with China growing in the low double digits, and rest of the world declined in the low single digits. With respect to our operational performance, adjusted operating income in the quarter decreased 2% and adjusted operating margin was 29.2%, 620 basis points lower than Q1 last year. Adjusted operating margins came in slightly higher than we had anticipated in our prior guidance for Q1, reflecting how well our growth strategy and PPI Business System enables us to manage dynamic times. We executed strong pricing realization, productivity, and volume leverage in the core business, enabling us to appropriately address higher inflation, and this was more than offset by the expected impact of incorporating PPD into our financials, lower testing volumes, and the impact of strategic investments, including continued investments in our colleagues. Moving on to the details of the P&L. Total company adjusted gross margin in the quarter came in at 47.5%, 660 basis points lower than Q1 last year. For the first quarter, the change in gross margin was due to the same drivers as those of our adjusted operating margin. Adjusted SG&A in the quarter was 15.2% of revenue, a decrease of 20 basis points versus Q1 2021. Total R&D expense was approximately $360 million in Q1, representing growth of 14% over the prior year, reflecting our ongoing investments in high-impact innovation to fuel future growth. Looking at our results below the line for the quarter. Our net interest expense was $118 million, $5 million higher than Q1 last year, largely due to acquisition financing activities. Our adjusted tax rate in the quarter was 14.1%. This was 190 basis points lower than Q1 last year, driven by our tax planning initiatives. Average diluted shares were $395 million in Q1, approximately $3 million lower year over year driven by share repurchases, net of option dilution. Turning to cash flow and the balance sheet. Cash flow was another strong highlight for the quarter. Our PPI business system enabled us to deliver significant cash flow from the very strong topline performance. Cash flow from operating activities in Q1 was $2.2 billion, and free cash flow for the quarter was $1.6 billion. Our capacity and capability investments are progressing well, and this quarter's net capital expenditures were $640 million. In January, we returned $2 billion of capital to shareholders through buybacks. Also during the quarter, we increased our dividend by 15%. We ended Q1 with approximately $2.8 billion in cash and $33.3 billion of total debt. Our leverage ratio at the end of the quarter was 2.6 times gross debt to adjusted EBITDA and 2.4 times on a net debt basis. And concluding my comments on our total company performance, adjusted ROIC was 18%, reflecting the strong returns on investments that we're generating across the company. Now I'll provide some color on the performance of our four business segments. Let me start with a couple of framing comments. The scale and margin profile of our COVID-19 testing revenue varies by segment, and testing revenue was significantly higher in the prior-year quarter, so that does skew some of the reported segment margins. And as previously mentioned, we're referring to the acquired PPD business as our clinical research business, and that resides in the laboratory products and biopharma services segment. So moving on to the segment details, starting with Life Sciences Solutions. Q1 reported revenue in this segment increased 1%, and organic revenue was 1% lower than the prior-year quarter. In Q1, we delivered very strong growth in our bioproduction and biosciences businesses. This was offset by lower revenue in the Genetic Sciences business, drive by lower testing revenue versus the year-ago quarter. Q1 adjusted operating income in Life Science Solutions decreased 5%, and adjusted operating margin was 51.4%, down 280 basis points year over year. In the quarter, we delivered strong productivity that was more than offset by business mix and strategic investments. In the analytical instruments segment, reported revenue increased 9% in Q1, and organic growth was 12%. The strong growth in this segment this quarter was led by electron microscopy and chromatography and mass spectrometry businesses. Q1 adjusted operating income in this segment increased 10% and adjusted operating margin was 19.8%, up 20 basis points year over year. During the quarter, we delivered strong volume pull-through and productivity, that was offset by strategic investments we're making across this segment. Turning to Specialty Diagnostics. In Q1, reported revenue declined 8% and organic revenue declined 7%. In the quarter, we saw a strong underlying growth in our healthcare market channel, transplant diagnostics, and clinical diagnostics businesses, which was offset by lower COVID-19 testing revenue versus the year-ago quarter. Q1 adjusted operating income decreased 17% in the quarter, and adjusted operating margin was 23.9%, down 260 basis points from the prior year. In Q1, we drove strong productivity. This was more than offset by business mix and the strategic investments in the segment. And finally, in laboratory products and Biopharma services segment. In Q1, reported revenue in this segment increased 51%, and organic growth was 6%. During Q1, we had strong growth in the research and safety market channel and the laboratory products businesses. PPD, our clinical research business is performing very well. And during the quarter, it grew a few points above the company average core organic growth rate. It contributed $1.66 billion of revenue to the segment in the quarter. Q1 adjusted operating income in the segment decreased -- increased 17%, and adjusted operating margin was 11.4%, which is 340 basis points lower than the prior year. In the quarter, we drove strong productivity, which was more than offset by strategic investments and business mix. So let me now turn to our updated 2022 guidance. As Marc outlined, we're raising our full year revenue guidance by $450 million to $42.45 billion. We're also raising our core organic revenue growth outlook from 8% to 9% for the year. And on the bottom line, we're increasing our adjusted EPS guidance by $0.22 to $22.65 for the year. It's a very strong outlook, particularly as it also factors in the notable macro developments that occurred following our last earnings call in February. Our team continues to do an excellent job navigating through a fluid macroeconomic environment to help us deliver outstanding results, reflecting the strength of our proven growth strategy and the power of the PPI Business System to operate with speed at scale. So let me get into the details of the guidance raise. In terms of revenue, there are three elements driving the raise in guidance. $350 million higher assumed COVID-19 testing revenue for the year, a $200 million decrease due to the change in FX rates, and a $300 million increase in the outlook for the core business. The core revenue raise incorporates a $350 million headwind from the conflict in Ukraine and the lockdowns in China, and we chose to derisk $600 million of vaccines and therapies revenue in the outlook, offsetting it with other core revenue. Our guidance now assumes $1.5 billion of COVID-19 vaccines and therapies revenue in total for 2022. Incorporating both of these, and still being able to raise the full year outlook for the core shows that the business is performing very well. And as I mentioned previously, we're increasing the core organic growth outlook from 8% to 9% for the year. In terms of our COVID-19 testing revenue assumption, we're continuing the same derisked approach to guidance as there are a range of outcomes for the year. Our guidance now assumes $2.1 billion for testing revenue in 2022, which represents the $1.68 billion delivered in Q1, $225 million in Q2, and then an assumed endemic run-rate level of $100 million of revenue per quarter in the second half of the year. There are scenarios where testing demand could be higher than this level. And should that be the case, we're well-positioned to support customer needs as we did in Q1 and will flow these benefits through our P&L. But for now, we thought it was prudent to continue to take a derisked approach to the outlook. In terms of profitability, we expect to deliver $90 million more adjusted operating income of the $450 million raise in revenue guidance. This reflects strong pull-through on the additional revenue, partially offset by $150 million of additional compensation to our colleagues to help them with the temporary impacts of inflation. We continue to expect adjusted operating margin to be 25.4% in 2022. In terms of adjusted EPS, our stronger business outlook is enabling us to raise the 2022 adjusted EPS guidance by $0.22, from $22.43 to $22.65, further building on an already very strong outlook for the year. Let me provide you with a couple of other details on the 2022 guidance to help you with your models. PPD, our clinical research business, is now expected to deliver $6.7 billion in 2022 in revenue, which represented 11% core organic growth on a full year basis for this business, up three percentage points from our previous guidance. We now expect the business to deliver just over $1 billion of adjusted operating income in 2022, and contribute $1.98 to adjusted EPS in the year, up $0.08 from our prior guidance. FX is now expected to be a year-over-year headwind of $700 million in revenue or 1.8%, and $0.54 from adjusted EPS. We continue to expect net interest expense of approximately $490 million for the year. We now expect an adjusted income tax rate of 13.1% in 2022, slightly higher than the prior guide driven by the improved earnings outlook. We continue to assume net capital expenditures of approximately $2.5 billion to $2.7 billion and free cash flow of approximately $7 billion. Our guidance still assumes $2.5 billion of capital deployment, which is the $2 billion of share buybacks that we completed in January and $475 million of capital returned to shareholders through dividends. And we now estimate that the full year average diluted share count will be between $394 million and $395 million shares. And finally, a couple of comments on phasing to help you with your modeling. Revenue dollars for the remainder of the year are expected to be fairly linear with Q4 being slightly higher than Q2 and Q3. Core organic growth for Q2 is expected to be lower than Q3 and Q4 due to an estimated 200 basis point impact of lockdowns in China. And in terms of adjusted EPS phasing, we expect Q2, as a percentage of the full year, to be just slightly lower than the comparable period last year. To conclude, we delivered an excellent start to the year, and we're in a great position to achieve our 2022 goals. With that, I'll turn the call back over to Raf.Rafael Tejada -- Vice President, Investor Relations Thank you, Stephen. Operator, we're ready to take questions. 