
OperatorGood day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Entergy Corporation First Quarter 2021 Earnings Release and Teleconference. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Bill Abler, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.Bill Abler -- Vice President of Investor RelationsGood morning, and thank you for joining us. We will begin today with comments from Entergy's Chairman and CEO, Leo Denault; and then Drew Marsh, our CFO, will review results. [Operator Instructions] In today's call, management will make forward -- certain forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, which are set forth in our earnings release, our slide presentation and our SEC filings. Entergy does not assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Management will also discuss non-GAAP financial information. Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measures are included in today's press release and slide presentation both of which can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website. And now I will turn the call over to Leo.Leo P. Denault -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Bill. Good morning, everyone. We had a strong first quarter, and our team successfully executed on several fronts. I'll begin with the highlights. We are reporting first quarter adjusted earnings of $1.47 per share. That's an excellent start to the year, and it keeps us on track to deliver on our commitments to you and all our stakeholders. In addition to solid earnings, we reached settlements on several important issues, reducing risk, providing long-term clarity in solidifying a clear path for our future growth.In Arkansaw, we resolved the FRP through settlement and legislation, which included a 5-year extension, and an equitable outcome for the netting adjustment. We reached agreement on a 3-year extension of the formula rate plan in Louisiana, our largest jurisdiction. We received an initial decision in the system energy, ROE and capital structure case. While we believe we have strong arguments for a better outcome in the final FERC decision, the ALJ recommendations would be manageable within our current long-term forecasts. We filed a joint settlement agreement among all parties, paving the way for the sale of the Indian Point Energy Center to Holtec before midyear. We are pleased with the outcomes of these proceedings as they provide certainty for you, our owners and regulatory clarity with more than 90% of our capital plan to be recovered with timely mechanisms.This enables us to continue to make investments in a cleaner generation fleet and a more reliable delivery system that benefit our customers and our communities, and support the long-term growth of our business. Last quarter, we provided a comprehensive update on our clean energy efforts. We are intently focused on expanding renewables while pursuing other clean energy solutions like hydrogen and carbon capture, and investing in the utilities carbon-free nuclear fleet. So far this year, we have initiated three requests for proposals totaling 1,000 megawatts of renewables.We are also exploring structural options for renewable projects that will lower the cost of these investments for our customers and help ensure that we have the capital required for other needed investments that benefit our customers. Our renewable portfolio has grown significantly. We have nearly doubled our renewables capacity over the past three years. With announced projects in RFPs, and we have clear line of sight to more than 2,500 megawatts by the end of 2025, which will more than quadruple our renewable capacity from 2020. And we expect to double that with more than 5,000 megawatts of renewables by 2030. In addition to renewables, we are also looking at other technologies that will help us achieve net-zero carbon emissions. Those technologies include [Indecipherable] to combine with renewables to provide short-term storage flexibility.We are actively developing options to utilize hydrogen to support and leverage a large renewable fleet, and provide clean energy with long-term flexibility. We see hydrogen as a form of long duration storage for renewables, which, when combined with our nuclear fleet, allows us to add additional intermittent renewable power to the grid and yet maintain reliable, dispatchable power that is 100% clean. Entergy's service area is well positioned to play a key role in the transition to green hydrogen, as we are in the heart of hydrogen producers, pipeline, storage and industrial users. We have a relationship with Mitsubishi Power to advance our future in hydrogen. Together, we are working on the Orange County Power and storage project, which will be hydrogen-capable day one, and eventually able to run on 100% hydrogen.We are also developing the Montgomery County innovation center to advance electrolysis to produce hydrogen. Long-term, our goal is for all of our capacity to be low or zero emitting. In addition to operating one of the cleanest large-scale generating fleets in the country, we are committed to helping our customers meet their sustainability, reliability and cost goals through electrification. This is an excellent long-term opportunity for us to create sustainable value for our customers across the Gulf South. We've already described how our Shore Power initiative has the potential to lower our customers' emissions and operating costs while we grow our business.In March, we announced the Electric Highway Coalition, a multi-state electric vehicle charging initiative. This collaboration will increase the number of charging options across multiple states, thereby improving convenience of long-range driving with electric vehicles. Our fleet plan will also improve our carbon footprint. With the help of our vendor partners, we have set a goal that all newly acquired passenger vehicles, forklifts, pallet jacks and similar equipment, be fully electric, starting in 2023. As Congress puts together the legislation to implement the overarching vision of President Biden's infrastructure initiative, we see potential opportunities to improve services to our customers, improve the resiliency of the power delivery system, enhance our transition to low and zero carbon power generation, and produce growth for our region. The proposal is far from final, but the environmental and social goals are aligned with our values and the work we are doing. Because of the improving economics of renewable resources and our customers' desire for green power to support their own sustainability goals, we believe there will be support for projects that will benefit all of our stakeholders. With policy support, those projects can be done faster and at a lower cost.On Monday, we announced leadership changes in our utility organization that will sharpen our customer focus. David Ellis has been named our first Chief Customer Officer. He will lead the Utility's strategic efforts aimed at delivering extraordinary customer experiences while also bringing to market innovative solutions to keep pace with evolving customer needs and expectations. David has nearly 30 years of experience in customer solutions, technology, energy management and reliability. Deanna Rodriguez will succeed David as President and CEO of Entergy New Orleans. Deanna has been with Entergy for 27 years. Her industry experience, combined with her background in regulatory affairs, make her ideally suited for the role.The addition of David as our first Chief Customer Officer as well as Deanna's move to New Orleans show our commitment to improving our customers' experiences and building the premier utility. We all know that our employees rose to the challenges of 2020, and their resiliency has continued this year. The ice and freezing temperatures of Winter Storm Uri this past February presented challenges across many aspects of our operations. Our employees work tirelessly to balance the system and minimize customer outages. We committed $650,000 to help community nonprofits and qualifying customers who are affected by the winter event. Grants went directly to local nonprofits assisting low-income customers with emergency needs, including food banks, and SBP, an organization that helps communities rebuild after weather events.Additionally, funded -- funding was also provided to The Power to Care, which provides payment assistance to Entergy customers who are low-income seniors, and people with disabilities. We also implemented new bill payment options for customers experiencing financial hardship. Indian Point Unit three will shutdown in just a few days, and we expect to complete the sale of that plant in just over a month. The Indian Point team is finishing strong as operations wind down. In fact, they are finishing so strong that they set a new world record for the longest continuous run for a light water reactor. I would like to thank the employees of Indian Point for their dedicated service to the plant, New York and to Entergy.Through this entire shutdown and sale process, we have remained committed to our employees and all those qualified and willing to relocate, have been offered positions. We look forward to them starting the next phase of their careers with us. As I said, it's been a very productive start for 2021, and we will continue to successfully achieve the milestones that keep us on track to deliver steady, predictable earnings and dividend growth for you, our owners, while investing to benefit our customers and creating value for all our stakeholders. Before I turn it over to Drew, I encourage you to read our recently released 2020 integrated report forward together. The report outlines the significant accomplishments of 2020.When faced with circumstances that threatened to divide us, we chose to tackle challenges head on, and move forward together. We supported our customers, employees and communities. We champion diversity, inclusion and belonging, and we delivered on our financial commitments. The report outlines in detail the solid foundation that underlies our strategy, to deliver steady, predictable growth, including sustainability leadership among the lowest retail rates in the country, one of the cleanest large-scale generation fleets and getting cleaner, a robust customer-centric capital plan, constructive regulatory mechanisms and a commitment to continuous improvement for the benefit of all of our stakeholders. With the solid foundation that we have built over the last several years, and the significant opportunities that lie ahead, we are more excited than ever for what our future holds. I will now turn the call over to Drew, who will review our first quarter results as well as our outlooks.Andrew "Drew" Marsh -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Leo. Good morning, everyone. Today, we are reporting strong results for the quarter. As Leo mentioned, we successfully executed on several fronts and resolved key regulatory proceedings. As a result, we continue to improve the clarity on our strong path forward. We remain confident in our future growth, and we are affirming our guidance and longer-term outlooks. As you can see on slide five, we had a strong start for the year with adjusted earnings of $1.47 per share. Turning to slide six. You'll see that the primary drivers for the positive quarter were straightforward and largely a result of investing for our customers and executing on our strategy.We continue to see the effects of rate actions across our jurisdictions to recover the investments we have made to benefit customers. Operating expenses, including O&M and depreciation were also higher. Residential sales were stronger with and without the effects of weather, and the weather was largely due to Winter Storm Uri. This was tempered by lower sales quarter-over-quarter in other customer classes due to the effects of COVID-19. Although overall sales were in line with our expectations. This quarter's results also included the reversal of a regulatory reserve that we recorded in fourth quarter 2020. The reserve reflects the Arkansas Commission's original order on the 2021 formula rate plan.With further legislative and regulatory clarity on the netting adjustment methodology, the reserve is no longer needed. And income taxes were higher due to items that benefited 2020. Our first quarter financial performance, combined with an improved result in Arkansas has put us in a good position. Following up with the plan we discussed last quarter, we're now able to pull flex levers and put back some of the spending and investments for the benefits of our customers. Moving to EWC on slide seven. As reported, earnings per share were $0.19, $0.74 higher than the prior year. The key driver was better market performance of EWC's nuclear decommissioning trusts. As Leo mentioned, we filed a joint settlement with the New York Public Service Commission earlier this month, which is a key milestone for the sale of Indian Point, and we're on track to shutdown the plant in two days as well as close the sale near the end of May. Over the past several years, we have worked systematically to eliminate risks associated with exiting the business.This includes regulatory risk, commodity price risk. Operational risk is evidenced by Indian Point's record run, and risk for employees. In fact, we have said many employees will continue their careers in other areas of Entergy's operations or with Holtec. The result is that we have dramatically improved our business risk profile and are at the threshold of successfully exiting EWC next spring. Slide eight shows operating cash flow for the quarter. The result is lower than you may be expecting, but is caused by two timing-related factors of which you are aware.First, deferred fuel costs mostly due to Winter Storm Uri, and discussed in our last call, were approximately $350 million in the quarter, and we expect to recover them over the next few months. And second, the payments for non capital costs related to last year's hurricane restoration efforts were approximately $200 million. These hurricane restoration costs will be recovered through our storm recovery filings. Despite this quarter's results, our three-year operating cash flow expectation of more than $10 billion has not changed. As you might anticipate, this affects our current credit metrics, which are shown on slide nine. Our parent debt to total debt is 20.3%, and our FFO to debt is 8.2%. As we have mentioned for the past few quarters, our FFO to debt is temporarily suppressed in part due to financial impacts from storms, including Winter Storm Uri. FFO is lower as a result of the higher deferred fuel costs in the noncapital portion of the storm restoration costs, while that is currently higher as it was used to pay for the restoration efforts. As we've said, the debt will return to normal once we receive securitization proceeds next year.We made our first storm recovery filing in Texas this month, and we will file in Louisiana and New Orleans in the near future. Also, legislation is moving ahead in Louisiana and Texas to support off-balance sheet treatment. In both states, this legislation has already unanimously passed one legislative chamber, and now moves forward to the other. We remain committed to maintaining our investment-grade profile and supporting credit targets, and we still expect to be at or above 15% for FFO to debt next year and remain below 25% for parent debt to total debt. Moving to slide 10. We are affirming our 2021 adjusted EPS guidance range of $5.80 to $6.10 as well as our longer-term outlook.As Leo mentioned, we settled the Entergy Louisiana formula rate plan and resolved the Entergy Arkansas formula rate plan, including the appropriate netting adjustment methodology, and a 5-year extension. Our O&M and capital spending plans are aligned with these outcomes. In addition, as we progress through the year, we'll continue to utilize our flexible spending leverage to support steady, predictable earnings growth. Looking ahead, we continue to have a clear line of sight on our 5% to 7% annual growth rate for adjusted earnings per share, and we expect to grow our dividend commensurate with our EPS growth rate in the fourth quarter of this year, subject to Board approval.We have a solid foundation to achieve our stakeholder objectives, built on operational excellence and risk reduction. As we move forward together with our stakeholders, we see a clear path for future growth through our core utility business, and emerging opportunities associated with sustainability and improving our customer experience. This includes hydrogen and renewables on which we are keenly focused, as Leo discussed, and which we expect to benefit all stakeholders and support our growth trajectory throughout the decade and beyond. We see 2021 being another successful year for Entergy, and we look forward to great opportunities ahead as we work toward our goal to become the premier utility. And now the Entergy team is available to answer questions.