  OperatorHello, and welcome to the General Dynamics first quarter 2022 conference call. My name is Alex, and I'll be coordinating the call today. [Operator instructions] I will now hand over to your host, Howard Rubel, vice president of investor relations for General Dynamics. Over to you, Howard.Howard Rubel -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to the General Dynamics first quarter 2022 conference call. Any forward-looking statements made today represent our estimates regarding the company's outlook. These estimates are subject to some risks and uncertainties. Additional information regarding these factors is contained in the company's 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings. We will also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. For additional disclosures about these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures, please see the slides that accompany this webcast, which are available on the investor relations page of our website, investorrelations.gd.com. With that completed, I would like to turn the call over to our chairman and chief executive officer, Phebe Novakovic.Phebe Novakovic -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Howard. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for being with us. As you can discern from our press release, we reported earnings of $2.61 per diluted share on revenue of $9.4 billion, operating earnings of $908 million and net earnings of $730 million. Revenue is flat against the first quarter last year. Operating earnings are down $30 million, but net earnings are up $22 million in line which distorts the truly strong performance of the operating units. The improvement in net earnings was aided by less interest expense and a lower provision for income taxes against the year ago quarter. Earnings per diluted share are up $0.13 or 5.2% year over year. The operating margin for the entire company was 9.7%, 30 basis points lower than the year ago quarter. This was as anticipated in our earlier guidance to you, but also shaped by the aforementioned expense at the corporate other line. From a slightly different perspective, we beat consensus by $0.10 per share. We have roughly $400 million more in revenue than anticipated by the sell side and almost $20 million more in operating earnings. We also beat our own expectations, particularly so in aerospace, about which I will have more to say shortly. As we indicated in our press release, cash from operating activities is just shy of $2 billion and about 270% of net income. After capital expenditures, free cash flow was $1.8 billion, 250% of net income. This is particularly impressive following a very strong cash performance in the fourth quarter of last year and not at all typical for us in a first quarter. Obviously, we are off to a good start here. This is particularly impressive following a very strong cash performance in the fourth quarter of last year and not at all typical for us in a first quarter. Obviously, we are off to a good start here. This is, in important respects, a very strong quarter, a good foundation for the year. So let me move right into some color around the performance of the business segments, have Jason add color around the spectacular cash performance, backlog, taxes, deployment of cash and the makeup of the corporate other line then we'll answer your questions. First, aerospace. aerospace enjoyed another strong quarter. It had revenue of $1.9 billion and operating earnings of $243 million with a 12.8% operating margin. Revenue was $16 million ahead of last year's first quarter despite the delivery of three fewer aircraft. Revenue was almost $180 million higher than anticipated by the sell side. The difference is almost entirely growth at Gulfstream services and jet aviation. Operating earnings of $243 million or $23 million ahead of last year's first quarter, a 10.5% increase and well ahead of sell-side expectations. The 12.8% operating margin is 110 basis points higher than the year ago quarter. Here, the gross margin on delivered aircraft was slightly better particularly the 500, but fully offset by increased R&D spending. The improvement comes from higher service revenue, coupled with significantly better margin on net revenue. On the Gulfstream side of the service business, it was the result of an extremely attractive business mix. For jet aviation, it was strong performance at the FBOs in the United States. aerospace also had another very strong quarter from an order perspective with a book-to-bill of 1.7 to 1. Gulfstream aircraft orders alone had a book-to-bill of 2.1 to 1. The order activity at Gulfstream was strong across the board, but driven by orders for the 650. Strong sales activity and customer interest continues so far this quarter as well. The U.S. market remains robust with some slight improvement in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. China remains slow. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has stopped activity in Eastern Europe and slowed activity in Western Europe. All of this, however, is trumped by the strength of the U.S. market. I should add that flight activity is increasing in Western Europe, including flights to the U.S. This is a good leading indicator of an improving market in Western Europe. On the new product front, the G500 and G600 continued to perform well. Margins are improving on a steady basis and quality is superb. As of the end of the quarter, Gulfstream has over 160 of these aircraft in service, will support in the U.S. and Abrams interest from U.S. allies is increasing. Land systems had a book-to-bill of 1.2 to 1. Orders in Europe were higher, primarily from negotiations that have been ongoing. The pipeline in Europe, however, has increased as nations are contemplating higher defense spending to respond to the threat. Turning to marine systems. Once again, our shipbuilding units are demonstrating impressive revenue growth. Let me begin with a little recent history. The first quarter of 2020 was up 9.1% against the first quarter in '19. 2021 first quarter was up 10.6%. In first quarter of 2022, with the revenue of $2.7 billion, is up 6.8% over '21. The growth was led by Columbia class construction and repair volume. We also enjoyed nice increases in TAO and DDG-51 construction volume. I'm pleased that the growth is spread over all shipyards. Operating earnings are $211 million in the quarter, up $11 million or 5.5% on operating margins of 8%. We will strive to improve our operating margin as we progress through the year. The total backlog of almost $43 billion remains robust and is the largest of our operating groups. Finally, technologies. This segment has revenue of almost $3.2 billion in the quarter, down $36 million from the year ago quarter, about a 1% decrease. However, GDIT enjoyed a $55 million increase in revenue quarter over quarter and a stunning $286 million sequentially. This was GDIT's highest revenue quarter in over two years. Operating earnings at $298 million are down $8 million, roughly 2.6% on a 9.4% operating margin. Once again, GDIT was up $12 million quarter over quarter and $16 million sequentially. Technologies EBITDA margin was a strong 13.1%, including state and local taxes, which are a 50-basis-point drag on that result. Total backlog grew $293 million sequentially and total estimated contract value grew $2.6 billion on the same basis. The book-to-bill for technologies was 1.1 to 1, led by mission systems at 1.2 to 1, a good indication that their growth will soon resume. GDIT had good order activity with a 1 to 1 book-to-bill. Over 75% of this quarter's awards represented new business. The G700 flight test and certification program continues to progress well. We have five flight test aircraft that have completed over 2,800 flight hours. We also have conducted over 25,000 hours of laboratory simulated flying. All structural testing is complete and all structural requirements have been met. The aircraft design, manufacturing and the overall program are very mature. The new Rolls-Royce Pearl 700 designed specifically to match the G700 aerodynamic to optimize speed, range, emission and fuel burn will be certified in the next few months. The engine is performing well and exceeding key performance parameters. Our final step toward entry into service is to complete certification flying with the FAA. This is typically the most predictable part of our test program. All of this has been achieved during a pandemic and a certification process made increasingly rigorous due to industry events unrelated to Gulfstream. In that connection, this flight test process has a first-time requirement that was not part of our original flight test plan or any prior development effort. It is a model-based developmental software validation, a line-by-line examination of the plane software. The level of effort is considerable, completing 100% of the software validation is the impediment to finishing performance testing by the FAA and G800 first flight. I can assure you that the validation work to date has proceeded well and presented no surprises. It is just resource and time intensive. This leads me to some comments on the timing of certification. We continue to target certification of the G700 for the fourth quarter of this year, but the ultimate timing is dependent on the FAA. It seems prudent for us at this time to recognize the risk of a three to six-month slip in the process and to plan for it accordingly. If such a slip were to occur, we have offset any impact to our 2022 financial plan with an increase of deliveries of current production aircraft. This would also not adversely impact 2023. It also remains our view that the G800 certification will follow the G700 by six to nine months. Gulfstream remains committed to a safe and comprehensive certification test program. Production of customer G700 is underway, and we are preparing for entry into service. We will deliver a mature, high-quality aircraft. Looking forward to next quarter, we expect to deliver 26 aircraft with rapid increases in the third and fourth quarters as we have previously indicated. So far, supply chain issues have been in the news in this category. However, we expect an increasing number of issues in this regard later in the year and believe we are on a path to work through them successfully. In short, off to a very good start at aerospace. Next, Combat. combat systems had revenue of $1.68 billion, down 8% over the year ago quarter. Earnings of $227 million are down 7%. The numbers are reasonably consistent with our outlook and sell-side expectations. Margins at 13.6% are a 20-basis-point improvement over the year ago quarter, so strong operating performance. Stryker and Abrams have considerable support in the U.S. and Abrams interest from U.S. allies is increasing. Land systems had a book-to-bill of 1.2 to 1. Orders in Europe were higher, primarily from negotiations that have been ongoing. The pipeline in Europe, however, has increased as nations are contemplating higher defense spending to respond to the threat. Turning to marine systems. Once again, our shipbuilding units are demonstrating impressive revenue growth. Let me begin with a little recent history. The first quarter of 2020 was up 9.1% against the first quarter '19. 2021 first quarter was up 10.6%. And first quarter of 2022, with the revenue of $2.7 billion, is up 6.8% over '21. The growth was led by Columbia-class construction and repair volume. We also enjoyed nice increases in TAO and DDG-51 construction volume. I'm pleased that the growth is spread over all shipyards. Operating earnings are $211 million in the quarter, up $11 million or 5.5% on operating margins of 8%. We will strive to improve our operating margin as we progress through the year. The total backlog of almost $43 billion remains robust and is the largest of our operating groups. Finally, technologies. This segment has revenue of almost $3.2 billion in the quarter, down $36 million from the year ago quarter, about a 1% decrease. However, GDIT enjoyed a $55 million increase in revenue quarter over quarter and the stunning $286 million sequentially. This was GDIT's highest revenue quarter in over two years. Operating earnings at $298 million are down $8 million, roughly 2.6% on a 9.4% operating margin. Once again, GDIT was up $12 million quarter over quarter and $16 million sequentially. Technologies EBITDA margin was a strong 13.1%, including state and local taxes, which are a 50-basis-point drag on that result. Total backlog grew $293 million sequentially and total estimated contract value grew $2.6 billion on the same basis. The book-to-bill for technology is 1.1 to 1 led by mission systems at 1.2 to 1, a good indication that their growth will soon resume. GDIT had good order activity with a 1 to 1 book-to-bill. Over 75% of the quarter's awards represented new business. So good order activity in the quarter and good order prospects on the horizon. GDIT alone submitted over $5 billion in the quarter, bringing the number of submitted proposals in the decision or protest queue to $29 billion. As you know, we never update guidance at this time of the year. We will, however, provide you a comprehensive update at the end of next quarter as is our custom. This concludes my remarks with respect to a very good quarter. I'll now turn the call over to our CFO, Jason Aiken, for further remarks and then we'll take your questions.Jason Aiken -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Phebe, and good morning. The first thing I'd like to address is the unusually high corporate operating expense of $71 million in the quarter, which is up from $32 million in the year ago quarter. Given our full year expectation of around $110 million in corporate expense this year, you might have expected a first quarter number similar to last year. However, this year was impacted by a change to some of the terms of our equity compensation plan, which resulted in the acceleration of the expense associated with those awards. This was a onetime noncash item, and you should expect a lower corporate expense in the remaining quarters to result in our full year outlook of $110 million. If you consider the performance of our operating segments in the quarter, excluding this corporate expense anomaly, the segment margins improved from 10.3% a year ago to 10.4% this quarter. Turning to our cash performance. We had the strongest first quarter we've seen in some time. Following several years of negative free cash flow in the first quarter, this quarter was a marked improvement due in large part to the strong order activity at Gulfstream and ongoing progress payments on our large international vehicle program at combat systems. For the quarter, we generated operating cash flow of nearly $2 billion for a conversion rate of 270% of net income. Including capital expenditures of $141 million, our free cash flow was $1.8 billion or a conversion rate of 250%. So the quarter was well ahead of our expectations, some of which was favorable timing in our operating working capital, but the performance certainly reinforces our outlook for the year of free cash flow conversion at or above 100% of net income. Looking at capital deployment, I mentioned capital expenditures were $141 million in the quarter or 1.5% of sales, which is consistent with last year. We're still planning for capex to be around two and a half percent of sales for the year. We also paid $330 million in dividends and increased the quarterly dividend nearly 6% to $1.26 per share. And we spent over $290 million on the repurchase of $1.3 million of our shares at an average price of almost $225 per share. After all this, we ended the first quarter with a cash balance of $2.9 billion and a net debt position of $8.6 billion, down $2.8 billion from this time last year and about $1.3 billion below the year-end position. Net interest expense in the quarter was $98 million, down from $123 million in the first quarter of 2021. The decrease in 2022 is due to the $1.5 billion reduction in debt last year. We have another $1 billion of outstanding debt maturing later this year, and we'll have more to say about our plans related to those notes as we get closer to their maturity in November. The tax rate in the quarter at 14% benefited from the timing of equity compensation activity and associated deductions, consistent with our expectations. So no change to our outlook of 16% for the full year. But, of course, that implies a higher rate for the balance of the year to arrive at that outcome. Order activity and backlog were once again a strong story in the first quarter with a 1 to 1 book-to-bill for the company as a whole. As Phebe mentioned, the order activity in the aerospace group led the way with a 1.7 times book-to-bill, which is also the book-to-bill for the group over the last 12 months. As a result, aerospace backlog has increased by almost 50% in the past year. Technologies and combat systems also had solid quarters with a 1.1 times and a one times book-to-bill, respectively. We finished the quarter with a total backlog of $87.2 billion, while total potential contract value, including options and IDIQ contracts was $129 billion. Finally, a quick note on our expectations for EPS progression for the balance of the year. We expect the second quarter to be roughly $0.10 above the first quarter with more significant steps up in the second half of the year. Howard, that concludes my remarks. I'll turn it back over to you for the Q&A.Howard Rubel -- Vice President of Investor Relations Thanks, Jason. As a reminder, we asked participants to ask one question with one follow up so that everyone has a chance to participate. Operator, could you please remind participants how to enter the queue? 