
OperatorGreetings. Welcome to Juniper Networks' Q3 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Jess Lubert. You may begin.Jess Lubert -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThank you, operator. Good afternoon and welcome to our third quarter 2021 conference call. Joining me today are Rami Rahim, Chief Executive Officer; and Ken Miller, Chief Financial Officer. Today's call contains certain forward-looking statements based on our current expectations. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results might differ materially. These risks are discussed in our most recent 10-Q, the press release, and CFO commentary furnished with our 8-K filed today and in our other SEC filings. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of today and Juniper undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.Our discussion today will include non-GAAP financial results. Reconciliation information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website under Financial Reports. Commentary on why we consider non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results is included in today's press release. Following our prepared remarks, we will take questions. [Operator Instructions]With that, I will now hand the call over to Rami.Rami Rahim -- Chief Executive OfficerGood afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on today's call to discuss our Q3 2021 results. We experienced very strong demand during the September quarter and delivered a fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth even though supply chain challenges impacted revenue in the period. Orders saw another quarter of mid-teens year-over-year growth when adjusted to account for extended lead-time. On an unadjusted basis, orders grew by more than 50% year-over-year for a second consecutive quarter and our ending backlog has now increased by more than $1 billion as compared to year end 2020. Order momentum was strong across verticals, customer solutions, and geographies with each of these categories experiencing growth well into double-digit territory.Needless to say, our team is executing extremely well. Our strategy is working and the investments we have made in technologies that enhance customer operations and improve the end user experience, what we call experience-first networking are allowing us to differentiate across the markets we serve. This technical differentiation along with the investments we've made in our go-to-market organization, are paying off and enabling us to take share and capitalize on some of the big market transitions that are beginning to unfold across the verticals we serve. This is particularly true in the enterprise market, where customers are increasingly recognizing the value delivered by platforms such as Mist and Apstra that dramatically reduce deployment time, eliminate trouble ticket, and reduce mean time to resolution for network problems.These platforms are not only enabling us to win new logos in the campus and the data center, but also to pull through other Juniper products that present meaningful opportunities to expand with customers over time. In the cloud and service provider verticals, we're seeing strong early adoption of our 400-gig capable platform due to the strength of our Junos Evolved operating system, our differentiated silicon capabilities and the deep engagement we maintain with these important customers. These factors are not only enabling us to maintain our core franchises, but also to secure a new footprint, including a large new hyperscale WAN deployment that should present tailwinds for our business over the next few years.I'm also encouraged by the early customer interest in our metro routing portfolio, which addresses a large and fast growing market where historically we have in place. We expect this opportunity to steadily ramp through the course of next year as new products come to market and service provider 5G investments steadily increased. The bottom line is that I remain very optimistic regarding our future prospects despite the supply chain challenges we are currently navigating. I believe these challenges are likely to prove transitory in nature and the strong order momentum we're seeing and the backlog we have developed sets us up extremely well to deliver improved growth and profitability in 2022 and beyond. While it remains early, and we'll provide a more detailed 2022 outlook when we report our Q4 results. Based on current backlog and the order strength we're continuing to see in the market, we currently expect to deliver at least mid-single-digit sales growth and at least a point of operating margin expansion in 2022.Our expectations for 2022 do not assume a material improvement in supply chain constraints. Now I'd like to provide some additional insights into the quarter and address some key developments we're seeing from a customer solutions perspective. Starting with our automated WAN solutions, while revenue declined year-over-year due entirely to supply chain constraints, we experienced another quarter of strong order growth with solid momentum in both our service provider and cloud segments. We saw healthy demand across both our MX and PTX product families and strong adoption of our newer products as well as our automation software portfolio. Our 400-gig solutions are performing well and enables us to not only protect our existing footprint but also to secure a new win that includes several large opportunities with our cloud customers, including the hyperscale opportunity I previously referenced.Driven in part by these opportunities, our cloud orders saw a second consecutive quarter of triple-digit growth year-over-year. While we are continuing to see strong customer demand for our automated WAN solutions, these products are currently the most impacted by supply chain challenges. As a result, we continue to expect revenue from this segment to be within the range of our long-term model, calling for a 1% decline to a 3% growth this year despite the strong demand we are seeing. Our cloud ready data center solutions experienced 26% year-over-year revenue growth in Q3 and another quarter of encouraging order trends from our cloud, enterprise and service provider customers. We continue to see strong momentum with new logos and deals greater than $1 million.As I mentioned last quarter, Apstra is creating a significant buzz in the market, which is not only leading to more software opportunities but also full stack data center wins. Customer interest in our cloud ready data center portfolio is high and we continue to be optimistic about the outlook of this business. Based on the momentum we're seeing, our cloud-ready data center business is now tracking to meet or exceed the high end of our long-term model, looking for 5% to 9% growth year-over-year. Finally, our AI-driven enterprise solutions significantly outpaced the market and grew 35% year-over-year. Our Mist AI differentiation continues to win in the market as wireless orders experienced another record quarter with triple-digit growth and a record number of deals greater than $1 million.Our Mist-ifyied revenue of wireless LAN, wired access, Marvis virtual network assistant, and associated EX pull-through nearly doubled year-over-year, and we experienced record EX pull-through in the period, with this pull-through revenue growing more than 200% year-over-year. This momentum enabled EX to achieve the highest level of sales since 2014. We expect this momentum to continue in future quarters as customers increasingly recognize the value of AI-driven cloud operations including new and innovative features such as EVPN VXLAN fabric management in the Mist Cloud, which was launched this quarter.On a year-to-date basis, our Mist-ifyied revenue has more than doubled year-over-year. We are also seeing very positive results with our AI-driven SD-WAN solution, which earned Juniper distinction as the only visionary in the Gartner WAN Edge Magic Quadrant published last quarter. We saw a record quarter for our Session Smart Router portfolio acquired from 128 Technology with triple-digit year-over-year growth and key wins in various sectors like retail and banking plus especially strong traction with the federal government. In addition, branch SRX sales last quarter hit a two-year high, the pipeline for our AI-driven SD-WAN is strong as both prospect and partnered are gravitating toward the unique benefit provided by Juniper AI Ops with assured client-to-cloud experiences.We are particularly encouraged by the number of full stack multimillion dollar wins we are seeing in the campus and branch, where companies are turning to Juniper for a combination of their wired access, wireless access, and WAN Edge needs. Examples include a prominent retail chain in North America, a multinational energy company, a European multinational retailer, and a leading international construction company in Europe and managed services providers in North America and Europe. This highlights the value of our AI-driven enterprise offerings to customers and partners across all verticals and all geos. We believe Mist AI continues to offer unique and market-leading differentiation, including self-driving operations and predictive actions driven by our virtual network assistant, Marvis, resulting in the best user and operator experiences.I am very pleased with the momentum we're seeing in this business and now expect our AI-driven enterprise solutions to see at least 20% growth in 2021. Our security revenue experienced strong results in Q3 with total revenue growing 9% year-over-year and product revenue increasing by 16% year-over-year, which marks a third consecutive quarter of double-digit product growth. Strength was broad-based across our high end, midrange and branch SRX product as well as our virtual SRX offerings. Our connected security strategy is gaining traction in the market because the convergence of networking and security provides us with a competitive advantage. And we continue to receive third-party accolades on our solutions from organizations such as ICSA and NASDAQ's open, often vesting all competitors in head-to-head tests. We believe our technical strength in both security and networking will continue to provide tailwinds in future quarters and should enable us to grow our security business during the current year.Our software momentum accelerated in Q3. Software and related services revenue grew 67% year-over-year as we experienced growth with ratable subscriptions, solid uptake of our Flex software licenses and strong sales of certain perpetual on-box licenses. ARR grew 34% year-over-year, driven by a combination of Mist subscription, ratable security software offerings and the related services associated with these software offerings. We experienced record software orders in the quarter due to broad-based strength across verticals and customer solutions. Momentum is strong in both ratable subscriptions offerings as well as on-box licenses. Based on the momentum we're seeing, we're currently tracking ahead of the long-term total software and ARR targets we presented at our recent Investor Day.I'd like to mention that our Services team delivered another solid quarter and continued to grow on a year-over-year basis due to strong renewals and service attach rates. Our Services team continues to execute extremely well to ensure our customers receive an excellent experience. I would like to extend my thanks to our customers, partners and shareholders for their continued support and confidence in Juniper. I especially want to thank our employees for their hard work and dedication, which is substantial to creating value for our stakeholders.I will now turn the call over to Ken, who will discuss our quarterly financial results in more detail.Ken Miller -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Rami, and good afternoon, everyone. I will start by discussing our third quarter results and end with some color on our outlook. We ended the third quarter of 2021 at $1.189 billion in revenue, slightly below the midpoint of our guidance, but up 4% year-over-year and 1% sequentially. The modest revenue shortfall as compared to our guidance was due to the negative impact of supply chain constraints. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.46, in line with our guidance. During the third quarter, momentum in product orders remained strong, showing exceptional year-over-year growth for the second consecutive quarter. We saw significant order growth across all verticals, all geographies and all customer solutions. Some of this order strength continues to be attributable to industry supply chain challenges that are causing certain customers to place orders early in an effort to secure supply when needed.Even after adjusting for these early orders, total product orders are estimated to have grown in the mid-teens year-over-year. This is the third consecutive quarter of mid-teens bookings growth after adjusting for early orders. It's important to mention that our backlog has increased by more than $1 billion relative to the start of the year. Looking at our revenue by vertical, on a year-over-year basis, cloud grew 20%, enterprise grew 7%, and service provider declined 6%. We saw double-digit year-over-year order growth in service provider. However, the timing of shipments due to supply constraints impacted revenue. Turning to customer solutions, on a year-over-year basis, cloud-ready data center increased 26% and AI-driven enterprise increased 35%.Automated WAN solutions revenue was negatively impacted by supply constraints and declined 12% year-over-year. However, orders grew double-digits versus the last year. Total software and related services revenue was $204 million, which was an increase of 67% year-over-year and ARR grew 34% year-over-year. As Rami mentioned, we are pleased that our software-related metrics were at record levels in the third quarter and are tracking ahead of the targets we shared at our Investor Day in February. Total security revenue was $160 million, growing 9% year-over-year. Security product revenue grew 16% year-over-year. In reviewing our top 10 customers for the quarter, six were cloud, three were service provider, and one was an enterprise. Our top 10 customers accounted for 31% of our total revenue, consistent with the third quarter of 2020.Non-GAAP gross margin was 60.1%, which was above our guidance midpoint, primarily driven by favorable product and customer mix. If not for elevated supply chain cost due to COVID-19, we would have posted non-GAAP gross margin of approximately 61.5%. Non-GAAP operating expense increased 8% year-over-year and was essentially flat sequentially, slightly below our guidance midpoint. Non-GAAP operating margin was 16.6% for the quarter, which slightly exceeded our expectations. We exited the third quarter with total cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $1.8 billion. Cash flow from operations was $137 million in the third quarter. From a capital return perspective, we paid $65 million in dividends, reflecting a quarterly dividend of $0.20 per share and repurchased $50 million worth of shares in the third quarter.Now, I'd like to provide some color on our guidance, which you could find detailed in the CFO commentary is available on our Investor Relations website. Consistent with prior quarters in 2021, the worldwide shortage of semiconductors and other components is impacting many industries, caused in part by the continuation of the COVID-19 pandemic. Similar to others, we are experiencing ongoing component shortages which has resulted in extended lead-times and elevated costs of certain products. We continue to work to resolve the effect of the supply chain challenges and have increased inventory levels and purchase commitments. We are working closely with our suppliers to further enhance our resiliency and mitigate the effects of recent disruptions outside of our control.We believe that even with these actions, extended lead-times and elevated costs will likely persist for at least the next few quarters. While the situation is dynamic, at this point in time, we believe we will have access to sufficient supplies of semiconductors and other components to meet our financial forecast. At the midpoint of our guidance, revenue is expected to grow 3.5%. This would be the sixth consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth. We expect our fourth quarter non-GAAP gross margin to decline sequentially due to higher costs related to supply constraints and product mix. If not for the elevated supply chain cost, we would have forecasted non-GAAP gross margin of approximately 61%. We believe these elevated supply chain cost will prove to be transitory over time, but will likely remain elevated for the next several quarters.I'd like to point out that despite an expected sequential decline in non-GAAP gross margin in Q4, on a full year basis; our guidance remains approximately 59.5%, which is in line with what we provided previously. While there is a lot unknown about the future due to the pandemic and other macroeconomic uncertainty, we would like to provide a few comments on our outlook for 2022, presuming no further COVID-19-related economic deterioration. Based on the current order momentum we are seeing in the anticipated Q4 2021 ending backlog, we expect at least mid-single-digit revenue growth on a full year basis in 2022. In addition, we expect to see at least 100 basis points of non-GAAP operating margin expansion on a full year basis. This guidance is not dependent on improvements in lead times or easing of industry supply chain constraints.We expect to see seasonal patterns from a revenue, non-GAAP gross margin and non-GAAP operating expense perspective. As a reminder, our non-GAAP gross margin tends to be sequentially lower in the first quarter with gradual volume related improvements throughout the course of the year. In addition, operating expense is typically sequentially higher in the first quarter due to the reset of variable compensation and fringe costs. In closing, I would like to thank our team for their continued dedication and commitment to Juniper's success, especially in this challenging environment.Now I'd like to open the call for questions.