
OperatorGood day, and welcome to the CME Group First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to John Peschier. Sir, please go ahead.John Peschier -- Managing Director, Investor RelationsGood morning, and thank you for joining us today. I'm going to start with the Safe Harbor language, then I will turn it over to Terry and John for brief remarks followed by your questions. Other members of our management team will also participate in the Q&A session. Statements made on this call and in the other reference documents on our website that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any statements. Detailed information about factors that may affect our performance can be found in the filings with the SEC, which are on our website. Lastly, on the final page of the earnings release, you will see a reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures.

 



With that, I would like to turn it over to Terry.Terry Duffy -- Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerThank you, John, and thank you all for joining us this morning. Our comments will be brief so we can get to your questions. As we all continue to navigate through the pandemic, I hope you and your families are staying safe and healthy. We released our executive summary this morning, which provided extensive details on the first quarter of 2021. As John said, I have John, Sean, Derek, Sunil and Julie Winkler with me this morning, and we look forward to addressing any questions you have.We saw solid volume rebound during the first quarter of this year as we averaged 22 million contracts per day. That represented our third most active quarter ever following the record activity we saw in Q1 of 2020 at the start of the pandemic when we averaged 27 million contracts per day. Importantly, we had a nice rebound from the back half of the year in 2020. We had a 35% sequential increase in average daily volume from Q4 2020 to Q1 2021. Also, interest rates were up 65% to more than 10 million contracts per day in Q1 relative to Q4. In addition, equities, energy and metals were all higher sequentially by approximately 20%.

 



In terms of products, we had record quarters in Bitcoin futures and silver futures. Micro E-mini NASDAQ and Russell were each up more than 100%. Agricultural markets remained active, particularly in options with more than 60% growth in both corn and soybean options ADV versus Q1 of 2020. Also, we continue to see strong non-US customer volumes originating in Europe and Asia with approximately 6 million per day during Q1 2021 versus 4.7 million per day for all of 2020.We are also pleased with the transition of BrokerTec onto the Globex platform for the treasury curve trades, and we did see recent all-time record in European repo activity. Last quarter, I mentioned the ongoing innovation across our markets. In Q1, that continued with Japanese energy futures, global emission offset futures, Ether futures, micro Bitcoin futures, lithium futures, Mexican interest rate futures and most recently, CME term sulfur. Also, we announced the JV with IHS Markit, which we are excited about. The main point is that we are constantly finding ways to assist our clients with the world's most diverse product offering across all the critical global asset classes.With that, let me turn the call over to John, who will discuss the financial results. And I look forward to answering your questionsJohn Pietrowicz -- Chief Financial Officer

 



Thanks, Terry. During the first quarter, CME generated more than $1.250 billion in revenue, reflecting average daily volume of 21.8 million contracts. Expenses were very carefully managed, and on an adjusted basis, were $437 million for the quarter and $372 million, excluding license fees. CME had an adjusted effective tax rate of 23.6%, which resulted in an adjusted diluted EPS of $1.79. Capital expenditures for the quarter were approximately $27 million. During the first quarter, CME paid out more than $1.2 billion to our shareholders in the form of our annual variable dividend of $2.50 per share and our most recent regular dividend of $0.90 per share. CME's cash at the end of the first quarter was more than $1 billion.Our 2021 guidance remains unchanged. We expect total adjusted operating expenses, excluding license fees, to come in at $1.575 billion. We anticipate the spending to be weighted heavier in the second half of the year as the global economy potentially opens. We continue to expect CapEx to come in between $180 million and $190 million. Finally, our tax rate guidance remains between 23.2% and 24.2%. Please refer to the last page of our executive commentary for additional financial highlights and details.With that short summary, we'd like to open up the call for your questions. Based on the number of analysts covering us, please limit yourself to one question, and then feel free to jump back into the queue. Thank you.