  OperatorWelcome to the Seagate Technology fiscal third quarter 2022 conference call. [Operator instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded. I'd now like to turn the conference over to Shanye Hudson, senior vice president of investor relations and treasury. Please go ahead.Shanye Hudson -- Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, and Treasury Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's call. Joining me are Dave Mosley, Seagate's chief executive officer; and Gianluca Romano, our chief financial officer. We posted our earnings press release and detailed supplemental information for our March quarter fiscal 2022 on the Investors section of our website. During today's call, we'll refer to GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP figures are reconciled to GAAP figures in the earnings press release posted on our website and included in our Form 8-K that was filed with the SEC. We've not reconciled certain non-GAAP outlook measures because material items that may impact these measures are out of our control and/or cannot be reasonably predicted. Therefore, a reconciliation of the corresponding GAAP measures is not available without unreasonable effort.Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that today's call contains forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views and assumptions based on information available to us as of today and should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by these forward-looking statements as they are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with our business. To learn more about the risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may affect our future business results, please refer to the press release issued today and our SEC filings, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q as well as the supplemental information, all of which may be found on the Investors section of our website. As always, following our prepared remarks, we'll open the call for questions. Let me turn the call over to Dave for opening remarks. Dave Mosley -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Shanye, and a warm welcome to those of you joining us on today's call. Before I begin, I would like to recognize the growing humanitarian crisis taking place in Ukraine. Our thoughts are with the people impacted by the devastation as we continue to hope for a rapid end to this conflict. As this crisis unfolded, distribution channels across the region were understandably impacted, adding to an already strained global supply chain. Specific to our business, we ceased shipments into Russia and Belarus at the onset of the invasion, which typically represents one to two percentage points of revenue on a quarterly basis. We expect these impacts to persist at least through the fiscal year. Turning to Seagate's March quarter financial performance. Revenue of $2.8 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $1.81 were within the ranges provided on our last earnings call and consistent with the revised outlook we shared last month. We continue to see solid cloud demand, and that boosted revenue for our nearline products to a fifth consecutive quarterly record. The strong nearline performance was offset to a degree by demand disruptions in other end markets. These include non-HDD component shortages as well as new COVID lockdown measures that intensified toward the end of March, sharply impacting the video and image applications or via market. Rising inflationary pressures were an additional burden on profitability for the quarter as we continue to operate amid an unusual mix of external challenges. Our team is executing at a high level in this environment, and that is best illustrated with a few key year-over-year comparisons. Relative to Q3 of fiscal '21, we grew total revenue 3% and nearline revenue 24%. We improved margins and demonstrated strong financial leverage with operating income growth of 12%, significantly faster than revenue growth. And we generated free cash flow of $363 million, up 32% year over year. These achievements reflect the resiliency of our financial model and our focus on driving profitability and cash generation in an environment where we are poised to capitalize on strong secular growth for mass capacity storage. While the underlying storage demand trends remain intact, the industrywide supply challenges impacts from the ongoing conflict in Ukraine and COVID restrictions are constraining growth over the near term, which we factored into the June quarter guidance we're providing today. Throughout the past couple of years, our strong supplier relationships, combined with our vertically integrated business model, have enabled us to navigate supply risks to support HDD customer demand. All the while, we've remained highly focused on protecting profitability. In addition to maintaining strong expense discipline, we have recently started to adjust pricing to help combat inflationary impacts in future quarters. Finally, we continue to strategically manage production and execute our product and technology road map. These actions are intended to reduce our cost per terabyte and realize operational efficiencies while delivering cost-efficient, higher-capacity solutions to our customers when they need them most. As we indicated on our last call, we leveraged the seasonal slowdown in the March quarter to begin staging our factories to support strong 20-terabyte demand. I'm delighted to report that we are shipping 20-plus terabyte products in high volume and expect unit shipments to more than triple quarter over quarter in F Q4 to well over 1 million units. This puts us on a pace for the company to achieve crossover with 18-terabyte drives early in the new fiscal year. The ability to quickly ramp and yield higher capacity products is especially important considering the strong cloud data center demand for nearline drives. Recent CIO surveys confirm that even in today's challenging macro environment, digital transformation, AI, and machine learning remain among the top handful of IT investment priorities. With current non-HDD supply shortages impacting new data center build-outs, many of our cloud customers, particularly in the U.S., are operating at or near record utilization levels, and upgrading to higher capacity drives in an effort to keep pace with demand. Seagate is addressing these needs by being the first to high volume with the 20-plus terabyte products, which represents the highest capacity drives commercially available today. With more than half of our cloud business currently covered under long-term agreements, we have visibility to healthy cloud demand into the back half of the calendar year. In the March quarter, mass capacity revenue increased 18% year over year and decreased 6% sequentially off a record December quarter. Strong double-digit sequential growth in cloud nearline sales partially offset the impacts of demand constraints in the other mass capacity end markets. In the enterprise and OEM market, some customers continue to grapple with non-HDD supply shortages that have impacted their ability to get parts and address their own in demand. COVID lockdown measures are limiting near-term demand in the VIA markets. In the March quarter, new security surveillance and smart city infrastructure projects were delayed due in large part to physical installations being hindered. This situation is similar to what the VIA market experienced in the early days of the pandemic. And based on input from our customers, we remain confident that these projects will resume once conditions improve, which we now expect to occur in the back half of the calendar year. At a high level, demand for video and image applications is on the rise. Increasing adoption of high-definition cameras, longer data retention rates, and the use of AI and analytics enable end users to identify patterns for months of captured data and extract value. Analysts predict that nearly two-thirds of network video cameras will have embedded AI deep learning analytics by 2025 compared with about 15% in 2020. Indicative of these demand trends, Seagate offers purpose-built VIA drives that support the heavier workloads and firmware to optimize video AI applications. Our strong customer relationships and breadth of knowledge and storage devices and systems and software and architectures have enabled us to develop product and technology solutions that address the evolving mass capacity storage and infrastructure needs. For example, Seagate's Lyve Cloud platform is aimed at meeting the growing need for a simple, predictable, and cost-efficient mass data storage as a service solution. To date, we've qualified nearly 30 ecosystem service providers offering capabilities such as backup and recovery that are interoperable with Lyve Cloud. We recently launched Lyve Cloud Singapore, our first platform in the Asia markets. We are continuing to responsibly build out our infrastructure and selectively work with new customer use cases. Overall, I'm really pleased with our progress and ongoing customer momentum. We look forward to sharing more in the year ahead. Looking ahead, Seagate remains well-positioned to achieve our long-term financial and business goals. We are focused on driving profitability toward the upper half of our long-term margin ranges over the next few quarters. At the same time, we expect to extend our track record of strong cash flow generation while executing our product and technology road map that collectively puts us on the right path to capture mass capacity storage opportunities and enhance value for all of our key stakeholders. We are taking aggressive actions that span cost management, pricing strategy, and operational efficiencies that target margin expansion and further strengthen our competitive position. I'll now hand the call over to Gianluca to cover the financial results.Gianluca Romano -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Dave. Seagate navigated its way through a very dynamic market environment and typically the slowest seasonal period of the year to deliver financial performance consistent with our revised expectation from the beginning of March. In the March quarter, revenue was $2.8 billion and reflected 3% year-over-year increase. Non-GAAP operating margin was nearly 17%, up 140 basis points year-over-year. Non-GAAP EPS was $1.81, up 22% year over year. The hard disk business ship approximately 154 exabytes, down 6% sequentially and up 10% year-on-year. Strong demand for high-capacity nearline drives boosted average capacity per total HDD drive to a record 6.7 terabyte, up 10% sequentially and 32% year on year. Demand for our nearline product supported mass capacity revenue of $1.9 billion, down 6% sequentially but up 18% compared with the prior-year period. Shipment into the mass capacity market totaled 133 exabytes, down 3% sequentially and up 20% year over year. Our nearline product segment continues to grow, with revenue outpacing the broader mass capacity business once again. In the March quarter, we increased shipment to 117 exabytes, up 6% sequentially and 23% year on year, supported by the ongoing adoption of our 18-terabyte drives and initial volume shipments of our new 20-plus terabyte products. Our leading nearline portfolio, coupled with a very agile supply chain, resulted in record cloud market revenue in the March quarter. Consistent with our comments in early March, demand for the VIA market were lower than anticipated due primarily to delayed project spending in China, resulting from disruption related to COVID and shifting government priorities. We do expect demand to improve once COVID-related restrictions begin to ease and project installation can resume. Within the legacy markets, revenue came in at $642 million, down 17% sequentially and 26% year over year. Quarter over quarter, the pace of decline was similar across each of the legacy end markets. However, the year-over-year decline was more pronounced in the PC market due in part to OEM continuing to balance component inventory. Non-HDD revenue was down roughly 19% sequentially to $237 million, coming off a record December quarter. Both our systems and SSD businesses were impacted by key component availability, which left us unable to fulfill all the customer demand, a trend that we expect to continue in the June quarter. Despite these challenges, non-HDD revenue was essentially flat year over year, and demand remains solid, notably for the system business with record order backlog exiting the quarter. Moving on to our operational performance. Non-GAAP gross profit in the March quarter was $817 million, compared to $749 million in the prior-year period. Our corresponding non-GAAP gross margin was 29.2%, down 150 basis points sequentially but up 180 basis points year over year. The ongoing transition to both higher capacity drives and cost-optimized products provided some offset to the slowdown in the VIA market and continued elevated logistics and component costs. HDD gross margin was inside of our long-term target range of 30% to 33%, and we expect our HDD and total company gross margin to trend higher in the June quarter. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $345 million, in line with our expectation. We estimate the opex will move slightly higher in the June quarter due to an increase in business travel and sales and marketing activities. Our resulting non-GAAP operating income was $472 million, which translates into non-GAAP operating margin of 16.8% and reflecting lower sequential business volumes and the temporary margin pressure discussed earlier. Based on diluted share count of approximately 222 million shares, non-GAAP EPS for the March quarter was $1.81, within our original guidance range and consistent with our update in early March. Inventory increased by $192 million to approximately $1.5 billion as we continue making strategic purchases of critical components, optimize use of ocean freight to reduce logistic costs and support future product demand. Given the current macro environment, we believe inventory around this level is appropriate for the next couple of quarters. Capital expenditures were $97 million for the quarter, up slightly quarter over quarter. We expect to be at or below the low end of our target range of 4% to 6% of revenue for fiscal '22, which is adequate to support our future product and services road map while maintaining our focus on aligning HD supply with demand. Free cash flow generation for the March quarter was $363 million, up 32% year over year. Fiscal year to date through our March quarter, we have generated nearly $400 million more in free cash flow as compared to the previous year, enabling Seagate to continue its strong return of capital to shareholders. In the March quarter, we used $154 million for the quarterly dividend and $417 million to repurchase 4.2 million ordinary shares, exiting the quarter with 216 million shares outstanding and approximately $2.8 billion remaining in our authorization. We ended the March quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $1.1 billion and total liquidity with approximately $2.9 billion, including our revolving credit facility. Adjusted EBITDA was $2.7 billion for the 12-month period ending in March, with our leverage ratio declining slightly to 2.1 times. Total debt balance at the end of the quarter declined to $5.6 billion, reflecting the planned repayment of $220 million in debt during the March quarter. In summary, while the March quarter was very challenging, we delivered top and bottom-line results which were within our original guidance range with agile operational execution and ongoing focus on optimizing profitability and free cash flow generation. Entering the June quarter, the operating environment has remained challenging. We have not yet seen an improvement relative to COVID shutdowns in China that we anticipated in early March, and non-HDD component shortages and geopolitical dynamics have intensified. As a result, we expect these external factors to constrain demand growth over the near term. With that in mind, we expect June quarter revenue to be in the range of $2.8 billion plus or minus $150 million. We expect the actions that we are taking to mitigate external challenges combined with a more favorable product mix to support June quarter non-GAAP operating margin at the low end of our revised long-term range of 18% to 22% of revenue. Finally, we expect non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $1.90 plus or minus $0.20, an increase of 5% sequentially at the midpoint. I will now turn the call back to Dave for final comments.Dave Mosley -- Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Gianluca. The fundamental demand drivers for mass capacity storage remain intact. While the external challenges discussed today are impacting our Q4 outlook, I am confident in the long-term growth trajectory of the business backed by the combined strength of our operational execution, technology road map, and strong product portfolio. Demand for data continues to grow in both public and private clouds and at the edge with a broadening of VIA applications. These trends support mass capacity revenue TAM doubling every five years or so and reaching $26 billion by calendar 2026. Seagate's leadership in mass capacity technology and strong product portfolio makes us ideally positioned to capture these opportunities from the 20-plus terabyte drives we are shipping today to the 30-plus terabyte HAMR products under development, along with our cost-optimized portfolio of mid-cap drives. We are taking actions to improve margin and cash flow as we move through the calendar year, barring any additional macro disruption, which is consistent with our priorities to drive profitability and free cash flow generation. Finally, embedded in Seagate's culture of innovation and execution is our commitment to running a sustainable business, one that balances profitability with people and our planet. We marked Earth Day this year with the release of our 16th Global Citizenship annual report and announcement of two important goals that reflect our deep commitment to sustainability. The first goal is to utilize 100% renewable energy across our global footprint by 2030. The second is to achieve net-zero carbon footprint by 2040, done in collaboration with our customers to eliminate Scope 3 emissions and, in turn, support their environmental goals. We continue to see opportunities to partner more closely with customers for the benefit of sustainability as well as circularity. The world's precious resources are finite, and we are working to expand programs focused on reducing our impact to the planet through efforts to recycle and reuse drives, components, and raw materials. I'm very proud of the important work our teams are accomplishing. In fiscal 2021, we recycled more than 1 million drives and recovered over 1 metric ton of rare earth materials. I'd like to conclude by thanking our employees for their incredible efforts, our suppliers and customers for their partnership and our shareholders for their ongoing trust in Seagate. Gianluca and I will now take your questions. 