  OperatorWelcome to the Q1 2021 Datadog earnings conference call. My name is Karen. I will be your operator for today's call. [Operator instructions] I will now turn the call over to Yuka Broderick, head of investor relations. Yuka, you may begin.Yuka Broderick -- Head of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Karen. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today to review Datadog's first-quarter 2021 financial results, which we announced in our press release issued after the close of market today. Joining me on the call today are Olivier Pomel, Datadog's co-founder and CEO; and David Obstler, Datadog's CFO. During this call, we will make statements related to our business that are forward-looking under federal securities laws and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements related to our future financial performance, including our outlook for the second quarter and for the full year of 2021, our strategies, the potential benefits of our products, partnerships and investments in R&D and go-to-market, our ability to capitalize on our market opportunity and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on digital transformation and cloud migration trends as well as our ability to benefit from these trends. The words anticipate, believe, continue, estimate, expect, intend, will and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements or similar indications of future expectations. These statements reflect our views only as of today and not as of any subsequent date. These statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. For a discussion of the material risks and other important factors that could affect our actual results, please refer to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the SEC on March 1, 2021.Additional information will be made available in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2021, and other filings and reports that we may file from time to time with the SEC. Our filings with the SEC are available on the investor relations section of our website. A replay of this call will also be available there for a limited time. Non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on this conference call. Please refer to the tables in our earnings release, which you can find on the investor relations portion of our website for a reconciliation of these measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Olivier. 

 



Olivier Pomel -- Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Yuka. Welcome to the team at Datadog, and thank you all for joining us today. We had a strong start to the year and are very pleased with our performance in Q1, which was strong across all parts of the business and again showed high growth at scale and demonstrated efficiencies. It has been a busy start of the year. We had two products become generally available, continuous profiler and incident management. We closed the acquisitions of Sqreen and Timber, and we continued to release new features and innovations across our platform. In addition, we continue to hire and build our team at a very rapid pace. Now, onto a review of the quarter. To summarize Q1, at a high level, revenue was $199 million, an increase of 51% year over year and above the high end of our guidance range. We ended the quarter with 1,437 customers with an ARR of $100,000 or more, up from 960 last year. These customers generate over 75% of our ARR. We have about 15,200 customers, up from about 11,500 in the year-ago quarter.

 



 This means we added about 1,000 customers in the quarter, making it another strong quarter of adds and consistent with the last few quarters. We also continue to be capital-efficient with free cash flow of $44 million. And finally, our dollar-based net retention rate continues to be over 130% as customers increase their usage and adapted our newer products. In addition to that, the positive business trends from recent quarters have continued in Q1. First, usage growth from existing customers was stronger than expected and above historical levels. Among other factors, we are seeing the benefit of new logos signed in the back half of last year as they grow into their commitment. Second, new logo ARR was strong in what is normally a seasonally slower quarter, showing our go-to-market investments are paying off. And third, churn continues to remain very low and in line with historical rates. Taking all these factors into account, we had a very strong quarter of ARR added. In fact, we hit an important milestone as we added over $100 million of ARR in a single quarter for the first time. Next, our platform strategy continues to resonate and win in the market. As of the end of Q1, 75% of customers are using two or more products, which is up from 63% last year. Additionally, 25% of customers are using four or more products, which is up from only 12% a year ago. And we also have hundreds of customers using six or more of our nine generally available products. But it's still early. We think this is an interesting proof point that shows the continued sell opportunity in our customer base. And we had another quarter in which approximately 75% of new logos landed with two or more products. I'd like to provide an update on some of our more recent products, Network Performance Monitoring, Real User Monitoring and Synthetics. Both Network Performance Monitoring and Real User Monitoring became generally available a bit more than a year ago. And we are excited to share that both are at approximately eight figures of ARR and are showing high growth. And Synthetics also continues to grow rapidly and is an increasingly important contributor to revenue. As a reminder, our newer products are often adopted first by self-selecting customers at a small scale before our land-and-expand model enables greater adoption over time. And frictionless adoption from our single integrated platform is a key value proposition for our customers. While we are very pleased with the performance of our newer products, I also want to spend some time on the core of our observability platform. Infrastructure, APM and log. All three added record amounts of ARR in the quarter, showing the strength of our platform. APM and logs have both reached large scale and remain in hyper growth, while infrastructure continues to grow at a healthy base. To give you a sense of scale, APM and logs together added more ARR this quarter than the business as a whole did one year ago. So it is clear to us that these products are each strong enough to be best-of-breed solutions on their own. And to that point, Datadog was recognized as a leader in Gartner's 2021 Magic Quadrant for APM for the first time. And in fact, we were the only vendor in the leader quadrant that improved its position since the last report. Gartner specifically highlighted our strong history of product development and our ability to bring products to market rapidly. As a reminder, we entered the APM market just four years ago, and our APM product has a robust feature set, including end-to-end distributed tracing with no sampling and seamless correlation of traces with end-to-end observability. The ability to triage problem was also highlighted as a strength with our unified platform assisting in root-cause analysis and reducing resolution time. And lastly, our transparent pricing, which is available on our website, was also recognized as helping to build customer trust. We also continue to make investments in Watchdog, which is the brain behind AI-based features across the Datadog platform. In Q1, we announced a few enhancements, including Watchdog Insights, which is a recommendation engine that is always on and augments manual investigations by automatically detecting anomalies and outliers and allowing for faster time to resolution. We also announced the beta of Watchdog root cause analysis, which automatically identifies causal relationships between different issues across applications and infrastructure and pinpoints the root cause. In addition, we continued innovating across our platform, releasing 38 features in Q1 and crossing 450 out-of-the-box integrations. A few features to highlight include network performance monitoring for Microsoft Windows, which is a very differentiated feature for that Datadog NPM. New marketplace integrations, including Oracle Cloud as well as the official launch of our GovCloud instance allowing us to onboard early customers in the government space. Lastly, on the product side, I want to briefly discuss our acquisition of Sqreen, which closed in early April. We founded Datadog to break down silos between Dev and ops team. And as we've discussed previously, we are working to extend that to security teams as well. Sqreen is an application security solution that actively detects attacks and can trace them down to the impacted function call. It prevents application security exploits and enables response across development, security and upstream. We are very excited at the combination of Sqreen with our APM and security offerings. As we expect it to allow our customers to protect APM insulated applications with very little additional friction. And we will share updates as we progress on integrating it in our platform. Now let's switch gears and move on to sales and marketing. I am very proud of the continued productivity from our go-to-market team. As we mentioned last quarter, we have been hiring at a rapid pace across our sales work and are seeing more teams and reps becoming productive. Now, let's discuss some of our wins this quarter. First, we had a seven figure land with one of the world's largest consulting firms undergoing a multibillion-dollar cloud migration. With Datadog, they have reduced their monitoring costs by more than 35% with greater visibility into every layer of their stack, including several at functions. Next, we had a six figure or high six figure , I should say, land deal with a major transportation company. The company is moving toward the DevOps culture, but was hindered by a proliferation of siloed and underutilized monitoring tools. After implementing Datadog, engineers now have a single easy-to-use platform that facilitates mass adoption. Next, we had a six figure land from a large supermarket team. The company has thousands of stores and is in the process of migrating from legacy IT to an Azure-based cloud. Datadog's unified platform helped enable this migration and reduced mean time to resolution by up to 50%. Next, I want to discuss the seven figure upsell with an EVA, online game company. Prior to Datadog, business units were spending too much time responding to incidents and look for a single source of truth with visibility across all teams and systems. This company reduced its usage from eight observability tools to one, and Datadog is also used by executives all the way up to the CEO. Last, we had a seven figure upsell to an existing $1 million-plus customer in the financial services. During COVID, this large enterprise accelerated its digital transformation journey as they enhance their digital tools and online presence. And they continue to grow with Datadog as they migrate more work close to the cloud and have adopted newer products like NPM and Synthetics. Moving on now to our longer-term outlook. While the pandemic continues to impact the macro environment, businesses are starting to turn to priorities in the post-COVID world. Businesses must be digital first, which we expect will move forward digital transformation project. Massive IT replatforming is still in its early stages. We believe we are in a great position with our unified observability platform. While there is the possibility for more near-term volatility caused by the macro environment, we are increasingly confident in our ability to execute and in our long-term opportunity. Before giving the call to David, there are two changes to the management team I would like to bring to your attention. First, our Chief Revenue Officer, Dan Fougere, will transition out of the company this quarter to take some well-deserved time off after a few decades of hard work. We are very grateful to Dan for many quarters of growth and for developing a world-class organization. We are confident that the team he's built will continue carrying the torch, and we exceed expectations to Datadog way. We are also running a search for a new CRO and are evaluating both internal and external candidates. Second, I'm pleased to announce that we will soon be joined by our first-ever chief operating officer, Adam Blitzer, who joins us after a successful tenure as an EVP and GM at Salesforce. Adam will help us scale as a SaaS platform company and will oversee a number of our front-office functions. With that, I would like to turn the call over to our chief financial officer. David?David Obstler -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Olivier. We had a very strong start to the year. Revenues was $198.5 million, up 51% year over year against the challenging year-ago comp. Usage trends were strong and showed broad-based growth. New logo generation continues to be strong and customers continue to adopt more products across the platform. To provide some more context, first, growth of existing customers was robust, again, and our dollar-based net retention rate remained above 130% for the 15th consecutive quarter. We are pleased with the usage growth of existing customers, which indicates continued adoption of our platform and continued migration to the cloud even in the face of macro pressures. As Oli mentioned, usage growth was stronger than expected and above historical levels. And usage growth was broad-based across our customer base. Also, we added a record number of 100,000-plus customers in the quarter. Given our land-and-expand model, a majority of these adds were existing customers. In addition, we had a strong uptick in the quarter in million-dollar customers. Next, our new logo results were strong. In fact, it was our second best new logo ARR quarter ever and a record for Q1. Contributions were strong across our enterprise and commercial sales channels. Earlier, Olivier shared several large new logo wins across more traditional industries, an encouraging sign as companies across a wide spectrum start embracing digital transformation projects. Remember that given our use-based revenue model, new logo wins generally do not immediately translate into meaningful revenue. Next, In the first quarter, we saw continued strength, as Olivier discussed in our platform strategy, with 75% of our customers using two or more products, and 25% of our customers now using four or more products, up from only 12% a year ago. Next, churn was consistent with historical levels. This demonstrates the importance of our solution to our customers. Our dollar-based gross retention rate has remained largely unchanged in the mid-90s. And this was true across customer segments and in each of our infrastructure, APM and log products. Taken together, this resulted in a record quarter of ARR adds, over $100 million and up significantly versus Q1 last year. Now turning to billings. Billings were $220 million, up 59% year over year. There were no major pro forma impacts to call out in the quarter. Remaining performance obligations or RPO was $464 million, up 81% year over year. Contract duration continued to be at an increased level from the year-ago period. RPO strength is driven by strong annual billings and commitments as well as a few large multiyear commits. It is important to note that those multiyear commits are built annually, and we do not incentivize our sales force for multiyear deals given our high net retention. Current RPO growth was also strong in the high 60s percent. As a reminder, billings and RPO can fluctuate versus revenue based on the timing of invoicing and the signing of customer contracts, while revenue incorporates customer usage. Now, let's review the income statement in more detail. As a reminder, unless otherwise noted, all metrics are non-GAAP. We have provided a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financials in our earnings release. Gross profit in the quarter was $153 million, representing a gross margin of 77%. This compares to a gross margin of 78% last quarter and 80% in the year-ago period. The slight decrease in gross margin, as we've discussed before, is due to our investments in product and platform innovation. We expect gross margin to continue to be slightly down from last year in the remainder of the year as we build out new cloud data centers and prioritize product development. R&D expense was $61 million or 31% of revenue compared to 27% in the year-ago quarter. We continue to invest significantly in R&D, including a high growth in our engineering headcount. Engineering headcount continues to grow slightly ahead of the pace of revenue growth, and we have been able to attract talent and are successfully executing on our hiring and onboarding plans despite COVID. Sales and marketing expense was $53 million or 28% of revenues compared to 32% in the year-ago period. Similar to R&D, we continue to make substantial investments in sales and marketing, but the pace of the revenue growth has outpassed pace investment growth. This was another quarter of no in-person trade shows and marketing events. And while we have successfully redeployed much of the events budget to advertising and other lead-generating activities, it is not on a one-for-one ratio. G&A expense was $16 million or 8% of revenue, slightly lower than the 9% in the year-ago quarter. And operating income was $20 million, or a 10% operating margin compared to an operating income of $16 million or 12% in the year-ago period. Non-GAAP net income for the quarter was $20 million or $0.06 a share based on 344 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding. Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. We ended the quarter with $1.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and marketable securities. Cash from operation was a strong $52 million in the quarter. After taking into consideration capital expenditures and capitalized software, free cash flow was $44 million for a margin of 22%. Free cash flow was driven by strong collections stemming from our strong billings in Q4 and Q1. Now turning to our outlook for the second quarter and the full-year 2021. We believe we can deliver high growth for the foreseeable future as we are addressing a very large greenfield market and are executing well against that opportunity. We are optimistic about the long-term opportunity and have seen an uptick in metrics driving our business growth. Taking this into account with our usual conservatism implied, we are updating our guidance as follows. For the second quarter, we expect revenue to be in the range of $211 million to $213 million, which represents a year-over-year growth of 51% at the midpoint. Non-GAAP operating income is expected to be in the range of $9 million to $11 million. And non-GAAP net income per share is expected to be in the $0.03 to $0.04 per range based on an approximate 344 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding. For the full-year 2021, revenues are expected to be in the range of $880 million to $890 million, which represents a 47% year-over-year growth at the midpoint. Non-GAAP operating income is expected to be in the range of $45 million to $55 million. And non-GAAP net income per share is expected to be in the range of $0.13 to $0.16 per share based on 345 million weighted average diluted shares. Now, some notes on our guidance. While usage growth was strong in Q1, when providing guidance, as usual, we use more conservative assumptions. Next, our strategic focus remains investing to optimize for the long term. Therefore, we are planning to continue aggressive investments in R&D and go-to-market throughout 2021. We believe the efficiencies of our business are evident, and we are confident in our ability to be a sizable and materially profitable company over the long term. Additionally, our model assumes the return to the office and a resumption of travel and in-person events in the second half of the year. We have limited visibility on these topics, but believe it's prudent to incorporate this in our outlook. Finally, in early April, we closed our acquisition of Sqreen. We are pleased to welcome more than 50 members of the Sqreen team to Datadog. The acquisition has an immaterial impact on our income statement. And our cash flow statement in Q2 will reflect the $190 million of cash that we paid for the acquisition. Now, below the operating income line. We expect approximately $1 million of Q2 non-GAAP other income, which is net including the interest income on our cash and marketable securities, less the interest expense on our convertible debt. We do not expect to be a federal taxpayer in 2021, but have a tax provision related to our international entity. We expect the tax provision to be approximately $700,000 in Q2 and $3 million for the full year. Now to summarize, we are very pleased with the results of the quarter. Customers continue to consume more Datadog, both in terms of usage and cross-selling to newer products, and the execution remains strong. We believe the importance of our solutions will only be strengthened long term by the continued trends of cloud migration and digital transformation. And now with that, we'll open the call for questions. Operator, let's begin the Q&A. 