
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the IQVIA Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded.I would now like to turn the call over to Nick Childs, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications. Mr. Childs, please begin your conference.Nicholas Childs -- Senior Vice President of Financial Planning & AnalysisThank you. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our second quarter 2021 earnings call. With me today are Ari Bousbib, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Ron Bruehlman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Eric Sherbet, Executive Vice President and General Counsel; Mike Fedock, Senior Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis; and Brian Stengel, Associate Director, Investor Relations. Today, we will be referencing a presentation that will be visible during this call for those of you on our webcast.This presentation will also be available following this call in the Events and Presentations section of our IQVIA Investor Relations website at ir.iqvia.com. Before we begin, I would like to caution listeners that certain information discussed by management during this conference call will include forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied by forward-looking statements due to risks and uncertainties associated with the company's business, which are discussed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings. In addition, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures on this call, which should be considered a supplement to and not a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures is included in the press release and conference call presentation.I would now like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, Ari Bousbib.Ari Bousbib -- Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerThank you, Nick, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining today. This morning, we reported second quarter results with outstanding double-digit growth in all key financial metrics. Following the strong performance, we've once again raised our guidance for the year. As you recall, we're tracking ahead of our pre-COVID V 22 financial plan. The health of the life sciences industry continues to strengthen. New clinical trial starts are trending well above recent historical figures. They are up 22% versus 2020 levels and up 7% compared to 2019.The pipeline of late-stage molecules continues to expand to record numbers, indicating a large backlog of potential launches, some of which have been pushed to the right during the pandemic last year. And finally, biotech funding continues to increase significantly. According to the National Venture Capital Association, funding totaled $25 billion in the first half of 2021. This represents an increase of 64% compared to the first half of 2020, which itself was already a record first half year. During 2020, the pandemic disrupted execution of clinical trials and businesses requiring face-to-face interactions. But at the same time, it accelerated change in the industry. It created new demand for new services. And IQVIA is uniquely positioned to deliver based on the differentiated capabilities such as data analytics, advanced technology offerings, and of course, our deep scientific and therapeutic expertise, all of which capabilities were highlighted to our clients during the pandemic.We are confident that these capabilities will continue to drive strong demand for both our clinical and commercial offerings in 2021 into 2022 and beyond. As we begin thinking about our plans during 2022, I am pleased to announce that we will be hosting an investor conference in New York City on November 16, where we will update you on our V 22 progress and share our plans for the next phase in IQVIA's evolution. Nick and the team will, of course, provide more details once all the logistics are set and available. With that, let's review the second quarter in more detail. Revenue for the second quarter grew 36.4% on a reported basis and 33.2% at constant currency. This represents growth that was $176 million above the midpoint of our guidance range. About 40% of this beat came from strong operational performance, and the remainder was from higher pass-throughs. Second quarter adjusted EBITDA grew 49.5%, reflecting the revenue growth drop-through as well as productivity measures. The $20 million beat above the midpoint of our guidance range was entirely due to the stronger operational performance. Second quarter adjusted diluted EPS of $2.13 grew 80.5%.That was 8% above the midpoint of our guidance range and was driven entirely by the adjusted EBITDA drop-through. Let me provide a little more update and color on the business during the quarter. Starting with our real-world evidence business. It once again performed well, strengthening its leadership position. This included a recent win with a top 20 pharma client to develop an ophthalmology evidence platform for upcoming product launches. The platform integrates primary and secondary data and layers on AI/ML tools to monitor patient safety in realtime.This will allow this client to add new products and indications to the platform without initiating new studies. This, of course, will save critical amounts of time and money while also reducing the burden on patients and sites. Turning to our commercial technology business. It continues to increase penetration among top 10 life science companies and emerging biopharma clients. A top five pharma client entered during the quarter into a commercial agreement to leverage the IQVIA human data science cloud as part of their core data and digital strategy for one of their large therapeutic areas. This client plans to roll out this platform in over 50 countries to centralize all of their fragmented data assets, resolve data management complexities and improve speed to insights.Our orchestrated customer engagement offering, OCE, gained additional ground this quarter as nine new clients adopted the platform for commercial operations, including two wins with large biotech clients. One of these OCE biotech clients has the potential for a global rollout to over 20 countries. The other large biotech win represents a competitive win back of the customer-facing team in the U.S. To date, we have 159 client wins for OCE. Our clinical technology solutions team continued our path to innovation in decentralized clinical trials with the introduction of IQVIA's Clinical Data Analytics Suite or CDAS. This solution builds on our human data science cloud platform, provides life science companies with new approaches to data use and harmonization as well as producing AI/ML and analytics-based insights. As an open scalable cloud platform, CDAS seamlessly works with sponsors' existing data archive and systems. We now have all of the top 10 and 18 out of the top 20 pharma clients using at least one of the several modules within our clinical technology suite.By connecting the right technology with the right data sources, IQVIA is enabling customers to identify new opportunities to maximize product value, get to market faster, improve departmental and business alignment and reduce costs. Switching to our R&DS business. During the quarter, it continued to build on its strong momentum, with over $2.5 billion of net new bookings on a 606 basis. In the quarter, we achieved a contracted net book-to-bill ratio of 1.34 including pass-throughs and 1.37 excluding pass-throughs. As of June 30, our LTM contracted book-to-bill ratio was 1.45 including pass-throughs and 1.40 excluding pass-throughs. Our contracted backlog in R&DS including pass-throughs grew 16.7% year-over-year to $23.9 billion as of June 30, 2021. As a result, our next 12 months' revenue from backlog increased to $6.6 billion, which is up 19.6% year-over-year. I want to highlight the lab business, which continues to be a key driver of growth and, therefore, will remain an area of strong investments for IQVIA. You'll recall that on April 1, we completed the acquisition of the remaining interest in Q2 Solutions from Quest Diagnostics.Following this transaction, we announced our plans to expand our laboratory operation in Scotland to bolster our investment in cutting-edge technology, including next-generation genomic sequencing and testing. Also in the quarter, we agreed to acquire Myriad RBM, adding to our capabilities in the lab. RBM specializes in biomarker detection and quantification testing that supports early  and late-phase drug development in key therapeutic areas such as oncology, CNS and immunology. This acquisition fits nicely into our strategy to develop specialized testing and precision medicine to help support drug development with state-of-the-art solutions. These actions further demonstrate our commitment to advancing outcomes in this space, and we are excited to continue to grow and innovate in the lab business. The Myriad RBM transaction is expected to close sometime in the third quarter.I'll now turn it over to Ron for more details on our financial performance in the quarter. Ron?Ronald E. Bruehlman -- Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerYes. Thanks, Ari, and good morning, everyone. Let me first start with revenue. Second quarter revenue of $3.438 billion grew 36.4% on a reported basis and 33.2% at constant currency. First half revenue was $6.847 billion, growing at 29.8% reported and 27% at constant currency. Our Technology & Analytics Solutions revenue for the second quarter was $1.353 billion. That was up 22% reported and 17.9% at constant currency. For the first half, Tech & Analytics Solutions revenue was $2.701 billion, up 21.3% reported and 17.5% at constant currency.R&D Solutions second quarter revenue of $1.891 billion was up 53.1% at actual FX rate and 50.7% at constant currency. Now excluding the impact of pass-through, second quarter R&DS revenue grew 44.6% year-over-year. For the first half, revenue in R&D Solutions was up 44.5% reported and 38.5% at constant currency. CSMS revenue of $194 million in the quarter grew 9.6% reported and 7.3% on a constant currency basis. And that brings the first half CSMS revenue to $387 million, up 3.8% reported and 1.3% at constant currency. And moving down the P&L and going to adjusted EBITDA.That was $722 million in the second quarter, which represented growth of 49.5%, bringing first half adjusted EBITDA to $1.466 billion, up 40.3% year-over-year. Second quarter GAAP net income was $175 million, and GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.90. For the first half, we had GAAP net income of $387 million or $1.99 per diluted share. Adjusted net income was $416 million for the second quarter, and adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 80.5% to $2.13. For the first half, adjusted net income was $841 million or $4.32 per share. Let's turn briefly to R&D Solutions. As Ari mentioned, we delivered another outstanding quarter of net new business. We see backlog grew 16.7% year-over-year to $23.9 billion at June 30.And next 12 months' revenue from backlog at June 30 stood at $6.6 billion, up 19.6% year-over-year. Okay. Now on to the balance sheet. At June 30, cash and cash equivalents totaled $1.8 billion, and debt was $12.3 billion, which results in net debt of $10.5 billion. Our net leverage ratio at June 30 came in at 3.74 times trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA. Cash flow was again strong in the quarter. Cash flow from operations was $539 billion -- million and capex was $145 million, resulting in free cash flow of $394 million. This brought our free cash flow for the first half of 2021 to over $1.1 billion, which is a material improvement over our 2019 and 2020 results. In the quarter, we repurchased $45 million of our shares, leaving us with $822 million of share repurchase authorization remaining under our latest program.And now on to guidance. We're raising our full year 2021 revenue guidance by $275 million at the midpoint, reflecting the strong second quarter and the continued operational momentum that we see in the business. Our new revenue guidance is $13.550 billion to $13.700 billion, which is year-over-year growth of 19.3% to 20.6%. I would note there's no FX impact versus our previous guidance. Compared to prior year FX continues to be a tailwind of 150 basis points to full year revenue growth. Looking at the segments. We continue to expect full year Technology & Analytics Solutions revenue to grow low to mid-teens and R&D Solutions revenue to grow mid- to high 20s, while we now expect the CSMS business to be up low single digits. You saw that we also raised our profit guidance. As a result of the stronger revenue outlook, we've increased our full year adjusted EBITDA guidance by $43 million at the midpoint.Our new full year guidance is $2.950 billion to $3 billion, which represents growth of 23.7% to 25.8%. Moving to EPS. We adjusted our -- excuse me, we increased our adjusted diluted EPS guidance by $0.18 at the midpoint. Our new guidance range is $8.70 to $8.90, which is growth year-over-year of 35.5% to 38.6%. Our full year 2021 guidance assumes that June 30 foreign currency rates remain in effect for the second half. Now to review the revenue guidance for the third quarter. Third quarter revenue is expected to be between $3.290 billion and $3.365 billion, representing growth of 18.1% to 20.8%. We expect adjusted EBITDA to be between $710 million and $730 million, up 17.5% to 20.9%. And finally, adjusted diluted EPS is expected to be between $2.06 and $2.13, growing 26.4% to 30.7%. And again, our third quarter 2021 guidance assumes June 30 foreign currency rates remain in effect for the quarter. So to summarize, we delivered very strong second quarter results.We had double-digit growth in all key financial metrics. We posted revenue growth of over 20% in our TAS segment and over 50% in R&DS segment. R&DS backlog improved again to $23.9 billion, up 16.7% year-over-year. Next 12 months' revenue from that backlog increased to $6.6 billion. That's up 19.6% year-over-year. We reported another strong quarter of free cash flow. And given the momentum that we see in the business and our strong second quarter results, we're once again raising our full year guidance for revenue, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted diluted EPS. So with that, let me hand it back over to the operator for questions and answers.