
OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Tyson Foods Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]I would now like to turn the conference over to Megan Britt of Investor Relation. Please go ahead.Megan Britt -- Vice President of Investor Relations

 



Hello and welcome to the second quarter fiscal 2021 earnings conference call for Tyson Foods. On the call today are Dean Banks, President and Chief Executive Officer; Donnie King, Group President Poultry and Chief Operating Officer; and Stewart Glendinning, EVP and Chief Financial Officer. We have prepared presentation slides to supplement our comments, which are available on the Investor Relations section of the Tyson website and through the link to our webcast.During this call we will make forward-looking statements regarding our expectations for the future. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, which may cause actual results to differ materially from our current projection. Please refer to our forward-looking statement disclaimers on Slide 2 as well as our SEC filings for additional information concerning risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our projection. Please note that references on earnings per share, operating income and operating margin in our remarks are on an adjusted basis unless otherwise noted. For reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to their corresponding GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings press release.I'll now turn the call over to Dean.Dean Banks -- President & Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Megan. Before we get started, I'd like to welcome Donnie King to the earnings call and congratulate him on his recent promotion to Chief Operating Officer. I would also like to thank our 140,000 team members for their continued efforts and resilience. They are what makes this company an incredible place to work, and I'm proud of their focus on raising the world's expectations for how much good food can do.Earlier today, we released our second quarter results for fiscal 2021. We delivered a solid operating earnings performance, recording $739 million in adjusted operating income for the quarter, which represents a 43% increase relative to the same period last year. We delivered $1.34 in adjusted earnings per share with 68% increase from the same period last year. These results were reinforced by our solid performance in retail, our continuing efforts to ensure the safety of our team members, our partnership with customers to enable recovery and our focused execution to overcome inflationary headwinds. Our results in the quarter reflect our continued focus on team member health and safety. This is our top priority, and I'm proud of the progress that we have made on our comprehensive safety, health and wellness agenda along with our recent vaccine deployment efforts.We also saw improvement in the foodservice channel during the quarter. We've been working closely with our customers to support foodservice recovery. As consumer demand patterns continue to create operational complexities, we've taken action to make our organization more responsive to demand signals and customer needs to accelerate our speed to market. Agility is increasingly important as we look to extend the gains that we have achieved in the retail channel. We continue to drive retail volume growth across our core business lines, delivering growth, and the recent quarter is particularly notable as we are now comparing to a prior quarter that included some benefit from initial COVID-19 pantry loading.As we navigate market volatility and rising inflationary pressures, we're focused on operational excellence and disciplined cost management. Our balance sheet is strong and we continue to invest in our business. We have prioritized capacity expansion and automation technology investments and have significantly increased our capital allocated to both of these areas. As an example, our Humboldt production facility in Tennessee has recently commenced operations, and our team shipped the first salable product in late April.

 



To support growth in case-ready beef and pork, we are also excited for the reopening of our Columbia, South Carolina plant as well as the grand opening of our Eagle Mountain Utah plant, both occurring later this year. We are expanding capacity in our international operations and have six sites where new capacity is currently under construction, positioning our international business for continued growth and profitability in the future.As we look at the balance of the year, we realized that we have a challenging second half ahead as inflationary pressure has continued to build. We also have several bright spots, notably, our performance in the retail channel and the continued strength in our beef segment. Looking past the inflationary headwinds that are impacting our input costs, I'm confident that our team is executing on the right priorities to meet our commitments and drive shareholder value creation.Turning to Slide 4. Team member health and safety is and will continue to be our top priority. Through our partnership with Matrix Medical and our local communities, over 42,000 of our team members have been vaccinated since February. As of today, we've offered on-site vaccination clinics at over 100 locations in more than 30 states. We've also launched a pilot project to enhance health and wellness of our team members. This involves the opening of seven clinics that will enable team members and their families to receive easier access to high quality healthcare services. Our first facility opened recently in Newbern, Tennessee.Turning now to Slide 5. Our total Tyson and core business lines have posted 11 consecutive quarters of volume and share growth. Notably, our team delivered volume growth in Q2 despite the unusually strong demand associated with pantry loading that occurred during the comparable quarter last year. Sales volume for Tyson core business lines are up 12.7% and total Tyson is up 8.5% in the latest 52 weeks. Our share growth has been the strongest in breakfast sausage, hot dogs, frozen value-added poultry and frozen protein breakfast.Our growth during these periods was driven in large part by our ability to bring incremental households into our branded product lines. total Tyson household penetration reached 81% for the latest 52 weeks. Also, consumers continue to rely on low to no contact buying methods. As a result, we experienced e-commerce sales growth of 105% in the latest 13 weeks compared with last year. This equated to approximately $425 million of sales through our e-commerce channel partners.Turning to Slide 6. Innovation is important to our success in both retail and foodservice channels, and we've continued to invest in the launch and scaling of new product innovations. On this slide, we have three examples of how our product innovation is tied to meaningful consumer insights. In a recent survey, nearly half of Americans expressed dissatisfaction with available plant-based options for the grill. This insight spurred our recent nationwide Raised & Rooted launch, which includes three new products to meet increasing demand for plant-based protein options.We're also excited for our recent launch of alternative protein offerings in the Europe and Asia Pacific markets, which will support growing global demand for protein. For Jimmy Dean breakfast nuggets, our another example of our ability to pair brand and category leadership in frozen breakfast with our unique production capabilities to deliver protein-dense offerings that complement Tyson's current product portfolio. Finally, annual servings per capita for breaded chicken sandwiches at restaurants are up 14%, and our products in this space have enabled us to capitalize on the growing popularity.Moving to Slide 7. As we continue to navigate complex consumer dynamics overall, we're closely monitoring several factors to effectively engage with our customers and consumers in support of the overall recovery. Protein has remained relevant throughout the pandemic with 54% of consumers indicating a deliberate intend to increase protein intake within their daily diet and 20% indicating that they are consuming animal protein more often than they were a year ago. In addition to overall protein consumption, we are closely monitoring reopening and recovery patterns. Approximately 76% of the U.S. states are now at 70% or more capacity for in-restaurant dining.With vaccine rollouts and consumer mobility improving, away from home traffic is gradually increasing on a sequential basis. Currently, QSR and C stores are leading the recovery as consumers are very comfortable with ordering takeout. While we are seeing some challenges in our international markets, progress against COVID domestically should continue to improve consumer confidence and mobility in the second half.The U.S. economy is improving rapidly in part due to government stimulus. While we expect some degree of elevated retail consumption to remain post-COVID, our success in growing retail share and driving relevant innovation will allow us to meet the strong demand for protein and serve our customers across all channels.I'll now turn the call over to Donnie to walk us through the segment operating results in detail.Donnie King -- Group President Poultry & Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Dean. I will start with the chicken segment performance captured on Slide 8. Sales were $3.6 billion for the second quarter, up 5%. Overall volumes were down in the quarter, primarily due to COVID-related production inefficiencies. Severe winter weather also impacted volumes, operating costs and production efficiencies in the quarter. Average sales price was up substantially during the period due to the favorable mix and the benefit of higher retail volume. Our reported price improvement also reflects actions that we've taken to cover the inflationary pressure we have experienced from higher grain, labor and freight costs. Despite our efforts in the quarter, we did not fully offset the inflationary impacts as a substantial portion of our business is contracted on a fixed annual price basis with terms negotiated and locked ahead of the recent surge in grain costs.Adjusted operating income was $6 million during the second quarter and $110 million for the fiscal year-to-date. Then versus both comparable periods, fiscal year-to-date operating income was negatively impacted by $145 million of higher feed ingredient cost as well as $95 million of increased grow-out expenses and outside meat purchases.For the second quarter, feed ingredients were $130,000 million higher, while grow-out expenses and outside meat purchases were $60 million higher. Segment performance also reflects net derivative gains during the second quarter of $40 million and $110 million for the fiscal year-to-date, both versus the respective comparable periods. These gains are associated with realized gains as well as open positions.Last quarter we shared our imperatives for improving chicken operating results, which are captured on Slide 9. Our goal has not changed. We remain committed to restoring top-tier performance. The first imperative is related to being the employer of choice. Despite implementing pay rate increases, we continue to deal with elevated absenteeism and turnover. We are implementing a range of initiatives to improve the team member experience and achieve the status of the employer of choice, including flexible work schedules and a competitive wage rate. At this time, we estimate our average base pay plus benefits for domestic production workers is valued at over $22 per hour.The second imperative relates to our strategy to improve overall operational performance. Although we have made some progress improving our plant performance, we're not where we planned to be at this stage. Our strategy to improve our operational performance includes restoring our production volume to full capacity. However, we've struggled to raise the harvest to full capacity due to upstream supply issues, including issues caused by lower hatchability rates. Consequently, we have offset raw material shortages with outside meat purchases at a higher level than we had historically.With the recent move in market prices, our cost disadvantage from outside purchases has widen. To compensate for cost headwind, we are working to recover our historical vantage on live costs, reduce the number of hams we are sourcing in the open market and to increase our plant efficiency as we gradually store volume over the balance of the year. The final imperative relates to serving our customers. Our focus is to deliver the highest levels of service to our customers, especially with respect to order fill rates.When our customers are successful, we are successful. We are sustaining share gains in retail value-added as we start to lap the COVID-19 surge and are also leading foodservice recovery and growth. At the same time, our sales team is working to recover raw material and supply chain cost inflation via pricing. To sum all these imperatives is a restoration of our chicken business to top-tier competitiveness and the coveted position of being our customers' go to supplier. Acknowledging the uncertainty associated with the continued COVID-19 recovery, we are increasingly confident in our ability to bring our adjusted operating income margin back to at least 5% to 7% range over time.Moving to Prepared Foods. Sales were $2.2 billion for the quarter, up 4% relative to the same period last year. Total volume was down 4% in the quarter as growth in the retail channel was offset by a reduction in foodservice volumes. Sales growth outpaced volume growth driven by the partial pass through of raw material costs, lower commercial spending and better sales mix.Segment operating income was $217 million for the quarter, up 14% versus prior year. For the first half, operating income was $483 million, up 30%. Operating margins for the segment were 10% for the second quarter, an improvement of 80 basis points versus the comparable period. Improvement in operating income was driven by the mixed benefit a strong retail performance, lower commercial spending and pricing pass-throughs which more than offset higher operating and raw material costs.In the second half, demand is expected to remain elevated at retail with volumes continuing to exceed pre-COVID levels and foodservice showing sequential improvement. Overall, we're seeing an accelerating inflationary environment that is creating a meaningful headwind for Prepared Foods in the back half of the year. We're seeing raw material costs up over 15% as well as increases in logistics, packaging and labor. To offset inflationary pressure, we're focused on pricing, revenue management, commercial spend optimization while ensuring the continued development of brand equity through marketing and traits pork.Moving to the Beef segment. Segment sales were approximately $4 billion for the quarter, up 2% versus the same period last year. Key sales drivers include the strong domestic and export demand for beef products with average sales price up 7.5% for the quarter. Sales volume for the quarter was down due to severe winter weather and production inefficiencies related to the challenging labor environment.Segment operating income was $445 million for the quarter. Operating income improvement was driven by strong global demand for beef products and a higher cut-out, which were partially offset by higher operating costs. Operating margin for the segment improved 790 basis points to 11% for the second quarter. Our Beef segment performance has been driven by favorable supply and demand dynamics, which look to persist deeper into the year.On beef supply, slightly higher domestic production for the calendar year is being more than offset by lower imports and higher exports, resulting in lower projected domestic availability for the full year. Adequate supply coupled with continued strong domestic and export demand will sustain cut-out values in our strong segment results.Now let's move on to Pork segment on Slide 12. Second quarter results reflect the benefit of strong retail demand and higher exports, which were more than offset by higher hog cost and operating expenses. Segment sales were $1.5 billion for the quarter, up 17% versus the same period last year. Key sales drivers of the segment included higher average sales price due to stronger demand, partially offset by lower volumes due to production inefficiencies. Average sales price increased by over 17% while volumes were down slightly relative to the same period last year.Segment adjusted operating income was $67 million for the quarter, down 28% versus the comparable period. Overall operating margins for the segment declined by 280 basis points to 4.5% for the quarter. The operating income decline was driven by lower volumes, higher hog costs and increased labor and freight costs. To improve our operating income results for the segment, we have implemented several actions to alleviate production constraints and to improve our volume throughput.As we look ahead, we are closely monitoring hog supply estimates. Recent USDA projections show a historically sharp drop in hog supplies. The sharp decline in supply and strong demand for certain pork items have pushed the cut-out 59% from the end of December. As it stands now, pork cut-out is at the highest level for this time of year since 2014. Looking at the overall calendar year, lower projected 2021 pork production and continued robust consumer demand are expected to support hog prices at well above 2020 levels.Finally, Slide 13 captures some highlights related to our international business. We continue to invest behind our international platform, which provides an opportunity to grow our sales and our margin by leveraging global production capabilities to feed consumers abroad. We're using our One Tyson framework to identify opportunities to maximize the value of our products and capabilities from farm to table at a global level. Our existing depth of experience in protein production, brand management and global customer relationships creates the right recipe for growth and positions us with the right to win internationally.I'll now turn the call over to Stewart to provide additional detail on our financial performance.Stewart F. Glendinning -- Executive Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Donnie. Turning now to a summary of our total company financial results. We're pleased with our year-over-year growth in sales, adjusted operating income and earnings per share. We performed well despite the challenging operating environment that spend tough labor availability, significant inflationary pressures in raw material cost, global supply chain challenges and an evolving demand backdrop.Adjusted operating income was up 43% during the second quarter due to strong performance in our Beef business along with growth in Prepared Foods earnings, partially offset by softness in Chicken and Pork. For the first half of fiscal 2021, we delivered adjusted operating income growth of 32%. Adjusted EPS grew nearly 70% during the second quarter driven by higher operating income. Fiscal year-to-date adjusted EPS was up 41% on a year-to-date basis.Slide 15 bridges our total company sales for the first half. Ongoing retail strength drove much of our sales results. We delivered growth across all our reporting segments in the retail channel. Overall, retail accounted for $700 million in sales improvement during the first half and over $260 million in the second quarter versus comparable periods.Moving to foodservice. Sales declined over $400 million in the first half compared to the same period last year, but improved $69 million in the second quarter. Foodservice recovery was most evident during the second quarter in higher Chicken and Prepared Foods sales versus the same period last year. Our foodservice mix in Chicken indexes to QSRs, which saw volumes above pre-COVID levels during the period.In Prepared Foods, we're seeing recovery in foodservice foot traffic and strong sales into the distribution channel. Exports were up over 5% versus the comparable period, led by Beef where sales improved nearly $100 million for the first half. China is a key driver of Beef exports strength. Lastly, we've seen some strength in industrial, particularly in Pork as renewable fuels continue to drive growth in fat and oils demand. In addition, the pace and shape of foodservice recovery will affect the composition of our channel and segment sales in the second half of the fiscal year.Slide 16 shows the bridge for adjusted operating income for the first half. Lower volumes, primarily from production inefficiencies in foodservice, were $100 million headwind on gross margin in the first half. Price mix benefited during the first half and price recovery of raw material cost inflation, improved mix, strong Beef segment performance and continued retail strength across segments.Adjusted operating income was burdened by $664 million in cost of goods sold pressure for the period. This amount reflects significant raw material and supply chain cost inflation. Of the total feed ingredient, grow-out costs and outside meat purchases associated with the Chicken segment, contributed $240 million of pressure. Other large contributors included freight and labor costs. Year-to-date, SG&A benefited from the $54 million loss in fiscal 2020 compared to a $55 million gain in fiscal 2021 associated with the cattle supplier fraud and certain reductions in freight spend and travel costs.Slide 17 captures our financial outlook for fiscal 2021. Given continued strength in the Beef segment and our expectations for ongoing foodservice recovery, we are raising our sales guidance for the full year. We now expect to deliver annual revenues in the range of $44 billion to $46 billion. This guidance reflects our expectation of partial price recovery relative to continued feed ingredient and supply chain cost inflation.At the segment level, we expect our directional annual guidance of lower operating margins in Chicken and Pork versus the prior year to hold. Because of stronger than expected performance in Beef and current market conditions, we are raising our guidance on the Beef segment. We now expect segment earnings to be up versus prior year.Finally, we are lowering our guidance in Prepared Foods due to back half inflationary pressures and now expect the segment's earnings to be flat versus the prior year. De-risk to this guidance include freight rates, labor cost, grain costs in the Chicken segment, raw material costs for our Prepared Foods business and continued export market strength along with price volatility in commodity meats.Our capital expenditures outlook of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion remains unchanged, though we now expect to be at the lower end of the range. Net interest expense is expected to be lower than our previous outlook at approximately $420 million. This update reflects an incremental term loan repayment of $750 million relative to our prior guidance that resulted in the early payout of our $1.5 billion term loan, offset by $500 million of new indebtedness associated with a new bilateral term loan facility.Our outlook on effective tax rate is unchanged. We will continue to monitor the potential implications of any new legislation, but do not currently expect to see impacts to our adjusted rate this fiscal year. Our expectations related to liquidity are also unchanged. As we noted last quarter, liquidity decreased from $4.2 billion at the end of the first quarter, ending the second quarter at $2.6 billion. Finally, COVID-related costs which totaled $95 million in the quarter are now expected to be approximately $365 million for the year.Turning to Slide 18. With our strong operational performance through the first half of 2021, we've seen an increase in operating cash flow. We have prioritized deleveraging through the first half consistent with our priority to maintain a strong balance sheet with financial flexibility. Investing organically in our business has been an important priority, which will increase our production capacity and our market capabilities as well as modernize our operations while providing strong returns.We will continue to explore parts to optimize our portfolio through M&A. We have a disciplined approach, which focuses on returns and generation of shareholder value. Finally, we're committed return cash to shareholders through dividends and buybacks. In short, we view the cash generation capabilities of this business as both strong and diverse, and we expect our deployment to deliver strong shareholder returns.Now I'd like to turn the call back to Dean.Dean Banks -- President & Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Stewart. To close our prepared remarks, I just want to make a few comments about our priorities for the second half. Looking at the work ahead of us, we are focused on improving operating margins, growing above the market and driving sustainable return for shareholders. To improve our operating margins, we are driving enterprisewide operational excellence, working aggressively to restore our competitive position in our Chicken segment and structuring our teams to operate at the speed of the market.To grow above the market, our team is focused on working closely with our customers to enable foodservice recovery and support ongoing retail demand. We've also increased investment in value-added capacity expansions and automation technology, which will support increased sales, high efficiency processing and more agile customer service. Lastly, the strength of our balance sheet will allow us to continue to invest in our business and return capital to shareholders consistent with our stated priorities.And with that, I'll now turn the call back to Megan.Megan Britt -- Vice President of Investor RelationsThanks, Dean. We will now move on to your questions. Please recall that our cautions on forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures apply to both our prepared remarks and the following Q&A. Operator, please provide the Q&A instructions.