  Operator[Operator instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Kevin Sayer. Sir, you may begin.Kevin Sayer -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, operator. We apologize for being a bit late today. We've had some difficulties with our conference call service provider here, but we're up and running now. And we're excited to talk about a good quarter.

 



 I'm going to turn it over to Sean. Sean?Sean Christensen -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, and welcome to Dexcom's first quarter 2022 earnings call. Our agenda begins with Kevin Sayer, Dexcom's chairman, president and CEO, who will summarize our recent highlights and ongoing strategic initiatives, followed by a financial review and outlook from Jereme Sylvain, our chief financial officer. Following our prepared remarks, we will open the call up for your questions. [Operator instructions] Please note that there are also slides available related to our first quarter performance on the Dexcom investor relations website on the events and presentations page. With that, let's review our safe harbor statement. Some of the statements we will make in today's call may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's intentions, beliefs and expectations about future events, strategies, competition, products, operating plans and performance. All forward-looking statements included in this presentation are made as of the date hereof based on information currently available to Dexcom, are subject to various risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.

 



 The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any of these forward-looking statements are detailed in Dexcom's annual report on Form 10-K, most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this presentation or to conform these forward-looking statements to actual results. Additionally, during the call, we will discuss certain financial measures that have not been prepared in accordance with GAAP with respect to our non-GAAP and cash-based results. Unless otherwise noted, all references to financial metrics are presented on a non-GAAP basis. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results or superior to results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Please refer to the tables in our earnings release and the slides accompanying our first quarter earnings presentation for a reconciliation of these measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Now I will turn it over to Kevin.Kevin Sayer -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Sean, and thank you, everyone, for joining us. Today, we reported strong first quarter results with organic revenue growth of 22% over the first quarter of 2021 or 23% on a constant currency basis. Demand for Dexcom CGM remains very high globally across all of our customer segments. We've also seen a nice rebound in customer growth throughout the first quarter with new customer starts ramping after the Omicron wave and ultimately meeting our expectations for the quarter.

 



 As many of you know, we have significantly scaled our business to drive demand and greatly expand the number of people with diabetes that we can serve globally. This scale goes beyond manufacturing capacity, extending to the efficiencies that we can bring as we serve customers and clinicians. Our relentless focus on meeting the needs of our customers continues to be validated in our results. In the first quarter, our net promoter scores for G6 remained near record levels, with customers also indicating that the strategies and tools that we've implemented are simplifying their experiences with Dexcom. The teams have driven several innovations that may not always draw the attention of our investors, but they are critically important to the experience of our customers. For example, our customers rely on Dexcom to make dozens of decisions each day and, therefore, a reliable supply of Dexcom CGM is critically important. In the first quarter, we established new records for on-time shipping for commercial orders and timing of replacement systems at 99.7% and 99.9%, respectively. We are especially proud of this result given the challenges of current global supply chain dynamics. Product supply should never be on the minds of our customers, and our operations team is making sure that this is the case. These efforts are delivering results in our performance as both retention and utilization levels have steadily improved since the launch of G6, reflecting a competitive strength as we engage with clinicians and payers on the value of our CGM systems. Building on this momentum, we are thrilled to now be underway with the initial launch of our G7 CGM system. G7 builds upon the best-in-class G6 experience with a form factor that is 60% smaller with the reduced environmental footprint, a streamlined set of experience, including a 30-minute warm-up time, an improved app experience with CLARITY integrated into the core app. And all of this with accuracy that improves upon the reliable performance that is a hallmark of Dexcom's CGM technology. Following the receipt of CE Mark for G7 in March, we initiated our limited launch of G7 in the U.K. in the subsequent weeks. During this brief window, we are assessing the functionality of the sensor and app in the real world and gathering initial feedback from our users, which has been very positive so far. Our plan is to extend the G7 launch to a steady cadence of additional international markets over the remainder of 2022 with a growing impact to our overall sensor mix in the second half of the year. In the U.S., our 510k submission for the G7 sensor, receiver and Android and iOS apps remains under review. We are in the traditional back and forth that comes with these processes. And we appreciate the FDA's ongoing attention to their view even as they juggle a very busy schedule. In the meantime, the teams are busy preparing for a seamless transition once G7 is available. This includes preliminary discussions with payers to drive market access, where possible in advance of approval. It includes significant preparations from our operations team to add incremental G7 lines in advance of the loss to support the expected ramp in demand. And it includes ongoing work with our insulin delivery partners to ensure that we are progressing toward the goal of connected pump and insulin pen systems that are integrated with our latest sensor technology. As we progress with the launch of G7, we continue to pursue creative solutions to expand access to our CGM technology and bring the value of real-time CGM to people who previously faced limited options for diabetes management. Beyond G7, we recently introduced Dexcom ONE in Spain, which is the newest of our direct markets and will launch Dexcom ONE in the U.K. shortly. These represent the first dual product markets for Dexcom, bringing two excellent options for real-time CGM to customers and their respective health systems of these countries. We expect this dual product strategy to significantly expand the number of people with reimbursed access to our CGM technology, broadening our growth opportunity in these countries ,,as well as additional countries where we plan to bring Dexcom ONE in the future. And geographic expansion is only one element of the significant growth opportunity ahead for Dexcom. In the first quarter, we were also pleased to receive device designation from the FDA for the CGM system that we are working to develop for use in the hospital setting. The breakthrough designation represents the FDA's recognition of Dexcom's potential to offer a more effective solution for glucose management and patient outcomes in the hospital relative to the current standard of care. This recognition is designed to expedite the regulatory pathway as we continue to build evidence for the safety and impact of Dexcom CGM in the inpatient setting. As you can see, we have a busy year plan as we navigate some of the most exciting launches in Dexcom history and build out the foundation of growth for years to come. The foundation for long-term growth emerges from the core values that motivate us and the noble mission that our employees embrace to drive greater health outcomes throughout the world. Along those lines, we are pleased to publish our third annual sustainability report shortly after the conclusion of the first quarter. This report demonstrates our commitment to our stakeholders and details some great progress in our reporting efforts, including the publication of our first SASB index, which is the reporting framework we find to be most preferred among our stakeholders. We also added updates to our efforts to drive access to our CGM technology globally via a comprehensive strategy that involves product differentiation, leveraging scale and demonstrating robust clinical outcomes. And we enhanced our disclosures around the composition of our workforce, employee engagement metrics, climate-related disclosure. And we are still early in our journey, and these updates provide just a glimpse of the many things that made Dexcom a company that I am truly proud to lead. With that, I will turn it over to Jereme for a review of the first quarter financials. Jereme?Jereme Sylvain -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Kevin. As a reminder, unless otherwise noted, the financial metrics presented today will be discussed on a non-GAAP basis. Reconciliations to GAAP can be found in today's earnings release ,as well as on our IR website. For the first quarter of 2022, we reported worldwide revenue of $629 million, compared to $505 million for the first quarter of 2021, representing growth of 25% on a reported basis and 26% on a constant currency basis. Organic revenue, which excludes non-CGM revenue related to last year's acquisition of our distributor in Australia and New Zealand, was 22% or 23% on a constant currency basis. U.S. revenue totaled $451 million for the first quarter, compared to $381 million for the first quarter of 2021, representing growth of 18%. As Kevin mentioned, we saw a nice reacceleration of new customer starts over the course of the quarter, coinciding with improved access to healthcare providers for sales force as the impact of Omicron waned. Our team continues to do a great job expanding the Dexcom prescriber base and making sure that these clinicians are aware of the Dexcom stories and the benefits of our system, leaving us well-positioned to extend new customer growth, both now and well into the future. International revenue grew 43%, totaling $178 million for the first quarter. Organic revenue growth, which excludes the non-CGM revenue related to our distributor acquisition, was 33% for the first quarter. These international results include approximately $6 million of unfavorable impact from foreign currency or approximately 4% impact to our international growth result for the quarter. We continue to see very good international momentum as we broaden our commercial footprint. This includes the recently announced expansion of our Dexcom ONE rollout that Kevin mentioned ,as well as additional access wins that have expanded our addressable market beyond the improvements that we achieved in 2021. As we mentioned earlier this year, following the successful launch of Dexcom ONE late last year, we saw two of the four regions we serve to establish reimbursement starting in the first quarter. We've also secured reimbursement for Dexcom ONE in Spain in conjunction with our launch this month and are hopeful to have Dexcom ONE added to the U.K. drug tariff shortly. In Canada, we secured provincial coverage for people with type one diabetes in Ontario. With this addition, Dexcom has now established coverage for seven provinces, representing greater than 93% of the Canadian population. Our first quarter gross profit was $398.1 million or 63.3% of revenue, compared to 68.1% of revenue for the first quarter of 2021. Our first quarter gross margin reflects the traditional step down that we see from our fourth quarter, as we see a greater mix of pharmacy revenue and less contribution from our DME customers with high deductible health plans. We also took a write-off of some obsolete G5 inventory in the quarter as Australia, previously the largest remaining G5 market in the world, as it added G6 to its CGM subsidy as of March. With this update, we are now able to fully transition the Australian market to G6, something our customers have long awaited. That impact, combined with a onetime impact related to facility damage, impacted our gross margin for the quarter by 100 basis points. Our teams are doing a good job leveraging our significant volume growth and operational efficiencies to offset the inflationary environment, allowing us to remain on track our full year margin expectations as we continue to advance our G7 launch. Operating expenses were $347.8 million for Q1 of 2022, compared to $297.5 million in Q1 of 2021. Despite ongoing investments in our commercial infrastructure, including the final quarter that includes incremental impact from our U.S. sales force expansion in 2021, as well as preparation for G7 launch and pre-commercial G7 development costs that remained in our R&D expense, we still saw first quarter operating expenses as a percentage of sales decrease by 360 basis points, compared to the first quarter of 2021. Operating income was $50.3 million or 8% of revenue in the first quarter of 2022, compared to $46.4 million or 9.2% of revenue in the same quarter of 2021. With the Q1 channel mix dynamic offsetting the operating leverage we continue to drive across the business. Adjusted EBITDA was $112.4 million or 17.9% of revenue for the first quarter, compared to $94.4 million or 18.7% of revenue for the first quarter of 2021. Net income for the first quarter was $32.3 million or $0.32 per share. We remain in great financial position as we closed the first quarter with approximately $2.7 billion of cash and cash equivalents. This gives us the flexibility to support our ongoing organic growth investments, including the scale-up of our Malaysia manufacturing facility and global commercial infrastructure, while also being opportunistic to look at strategic options that accelerate our long-term growth potential through either our ventures unit or M&A. Turning to guidance. We are pleased to be in a position to reaffirm our full year 2022 guidance for revenue and margin. This includes total revenue of between $2.82 billion and $2.94 billion. Gross profit margins of approximately 65%, operating margins of approximately 16% and adjusted EBITDA margins of approximately 25%. This guidance continues to factor in our strong customer growth momentum for our CGM platform, whether that is G6, Dexcom ONE or G7 with approximately $15 million to $20 million of incremental currency headwinds versus our previous expectations. We are focused on meeting the complex operating environment and global inflationary pressures head on, with our teams committed to driving efficiencies and operating leverage for our shareholders. With that, I will pass it back to Kevin.Kevin Sayer -- Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Jereme. As you can tell, there is no shortage of exciting things underway at Dexcom, and we look forward to providing updates as they come throughout the course of the year. I would now like to open up the call for Q&A. Sean?Sean Christensen -- Head of Investor Relations Thank you, Kevin. [Operator instructions] Operator, please provide the Q&A instructions. 