  OperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to Anthem's first quarter earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to the company's management. Please go ahead.Steve Tanal -- Vice President, Investor Relations Good morning, and welcome to Anthem's first quarter 2022 earnings call. This is Steve, vice president of investor relations. And with us this morning on the earnings call are Gail Boudreaux, our president and CEO; John Gallina, our CFO; Peter Haytaian, president of our Diversified Business Group and IngenioRx; Felicia Norwood, president of our government business division; Morgan Kendrick, president of our commercial and specialty business division; and Felicia Norwood, president of our government business division. Gail will begin the call with a brief discussion of the quarter, recent progress against our strategic initiatives, and close on Anthem's proposal to change our holding company name to Elevance Health.

 



 John will then discuss our financial results and outlook in greater detail. After our prepared remarks, the team will be available for Q&A. During the call, we will reference certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are available on our website, antheminc.com.We will also be making some forward-looking statements on this call. Listeners are cautioned that these statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of Anthem. These risks and uncertainties can cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. We advise listeners to carefully review the risk factors discussed in today's press release and in our quarterly filings with the SEC. I will now turn the call over to Gail. Gail Boudreaux -- President and Chief Executive Officer

 



 Thanks, Steve, and good morning, everyone. Today, we're pleased to share that Anthem is off to a strong start in 2022. In the first quarter, we delivered GAAP earnings per share of $7.39 and grew adjusted earnings per share by 18% to $8.25, exceeding our expectations based on the strong start to the year and the momentum in our business. We have increased confidence in our ability to deliver another year of growth in line with our long-term 12% to 15% annual adjusted earnings-per-share growth target. As a result, we've increased our full year outlook to greater than $28.40 per share, representing growth of at least 12.7% off the adjusted baseline we provided last quarter. It's the ongoing momentum in every one of our businesses, driven by the disciplined execution of the strategy we shared with you at last year's investor conference, coupled with the balance and resilience of our core benefits business that is allowing us to produce this level of growth. We ended the first quarter with medical membership of 7.5% year over year to 46.8 million members, widening Anthem's lead as the largest insurer by U.S. medical membership. In recent years, Anthem has been on a journey to transform from a traditional health insurance company to a lifetime trusted health partner by focusing on whole health, addressing the physical, behavioral, and social drivers that we know are critical to achieving optimal health. Our results demonstrate that our employer, consumer, and state partners are universally looking for solutions that address underlying drivers of cost, enhancing and simplifying the consumer experience. We are delivering in these areas, and it's propelling strong organic membership growth in each of our benefits businesses in addition to creating opportunities to scale our service divisions. Last quarter, we shared that Anthem produced its strongest national account selling season in the history of the company. Today, you can see in our results that commercial group fee-based enrollment grew by over 750,000 members in the first quarter alone, with a meaningful proportion of that growth driven by existing large employer clients consolidating their business with Anthem after working with us on a piece of their business in the past. Cost of care is paramount for self-funded groups, and the success we're seeing underscores our confidence in our leading cost-of-care position. Employers have come to expect more notably in the way of enhanced experiences, and we continue to innovate to meet their needs. In the first quarter, we expanded virtual primary care capabilities to reach 5 million commercial members and expect to reach 10 million members by yearend.

 



 We're excited about the potential to expand access to care, especially in underserved and rural areas, while offering convenient, personalized solutions. We also continue to advance client advocacy solutions and elevate our consumer engagement platform, Sydney Health, which has been core to our success in the employer market. Last year, we launched Sydney Preferred, a version of our Sydney Health app, that allows employers to customize our engagement platform for their unique benefits and needs. Today, nearly 1.2 million members are on Sydney Preferred, and we close the first quarter with more than 12 million registered users on Sydney, up approximately 40% year over year. Our commitment to whole health is also driving growth in our government business, where we are focused on health equity and meeting the needs of vulnerable members. Last quarter, we shared how our whole health index helps us better understand and address local, social, and physical drivers of health. We're leveraging the tool to identify members with diabetes who may benefit from one-on-one virtual coaching, supplies, and pre-emptive notifications to help better manage their health. In our Diversified Business Group, new behavioral health programs launched by Beacon address family therapy, suicide prevention, and offer a concierge model for members with comorbid conditions. All of these efforts support our focus on community health. Through our whole health index, we've been measuring Anthem's impact on health outcomes and are seeing encouraging albeit early trends. Our health equity and community health initiatives had targeted vaccine outreach, community health worker readiness, housing stability, and diabetes management during COVID 19. Programs made possible by our deep roots in our communities were recognized recently by the Institute of Medicaid Innovation. All of this work keeps Anthem uniquely well-positioned to serve the needs of our state partners and directly ties to our 100% Medicaid RFP win rate that we extended into 2022 with renewal awards in Indiana and Louisiana. Personalized whole health solutions are also resonating with seniors, notably dual eligible members with complex and chronic needs, and driving strong growth for Anthem in Medicare Advantage. For example, supplemental health plan benefits like those offered by Simply Healthcare address food insecurity issues by delivering food shipments directly to our most vulnerable members. Benefit packages like our Everyday Extras provide members the flexibility to choose which supplemental benefits matter most to them from menu of options. We remain on track to produce double-digit organic growth in our individual MA business, led by growth in duals. We also remain opportunistic in terms of driving inorganic growth through acquisitions. MMM has performed well since we acquired them last year, and we look forward to adding Integra, a high-performing plan serving high-needs Medicaid members in New York, to our portfolio when we close our purchase later this year. Across our organization, we're committed to accelerating value-based care, both in context of benefit expense for health plans and growth of our diversified services businesses. We know that value-based care leads to higher-quality outcomes, better patient and provider satisfaction, more predictable costs for our health plans, and, by extension, more stability in our benefit packages. All of these factors can lead to higher star ratings in Medicare Advantage, which is a key strategic priority for Anthem. Over the last year, we significantly advanced our care provider strategy with investments and risk-bearing primary care providers and aggregators. This drive toward value-based care is one of the most important strategic imperatives inside of our organization. In 2021, more than 60% of our consolidated medical expenses were paid under value-based care arrangements, with roughly a fifth of that or a low double-digit percentage of total spend in arrangements with downside risk. In the coming years, our primary focus will be to increase the penetration of downside risk-sharing, including via global capitation. We expect to make significant strides in the coming years, targeting more than a third of overall spend arrangements with downside risk in 2025, with significant increases in penetration in Medicaid, commercial, and Medicare. In addition to the benefits our health plans derive from value-based care, we see significant pull-through opportunities for our Diversified Business Group in the areas of provider enablement and carveouts of specialized care management, including behavioral and home health. Beacon and myNEXUS are leaders in these areas with the proven ability to generate high-quality outcomes and solid profitability in risk-based arrangements. Notably, 100% of myNEXUS' affiliated revenue earned from Anthem's health plans and 99% of Beacon's will flow through risk-based contracts in 2022. Guided by our enterprise strategy, we are making significant investments in our digital capabilities and platforms. We see three distinct benefits: elevating consumer and provider experiences, improving the cost and quality of care, and improving administrative efficiency by automating manual processes. Adoption of our digital tools, combined with strong and rising customer satisfaction surveys, suggest that our consumers and care providers are finding value in our digital channels. Less than two years ago, we implemented live chat and AI messaging capabilities for our consumers and care providers to provide more choice and convenience. Today, chat is our best-performing channel for issue resolution and consumer experience metrics. Consumer chat usage grew by nearly 40% year over year in the first quarter and now represents 24% of the contact mix. For care provider chat, usage grew by nearly 50% year over year and now represents 20% of our provider contacts. Meanwhile, Anthem is benefiting from improved efficiency, having reduced estimated 1.2 million calls from members and another 1 million from care providers in the first quarter alone. Year to date, we've also made significant progress advancing our Health OS digital platform, which is now utilizing clinical data from providers and health systems for more than 20 million members. We use this data to advance clinical quality and elevate experiences by sharing more comprehensive data and insights with care providers and value-based care arrangements in order to facilitate better care management and personalized member interventions. We're also leveraging the platform to advance our cost-of-care analytics and streamline data collection for risk adjustment, all while automating processes that reduce administrative burden for our associates and providers. We're rolling this tool out rapidly with a goal of covering another 4.5 million members by the end of this year. In conclusion, we're continuing on our journey to transform from a traditional health benefits organization to become a lifetime trusted health partner. And our proposed name change to Elevance Health marks an important milestone. Bringing together the ideas of elevate and advance, Elevance Health will reflect our position as a health leader committed to elevating the importance of whole health and advancing health beyond healthcare for our consumers, their families, and communities. Grounded in our mission and fueled by our bold and ambitious purpose to improve the health of humanity, Elevance Health represents the company that we are today and will continue to be in the future. I would like to thank our nearly 100,000 associates for the important work they do every day on behalf of the members who we are privileged to serve. Our passion to improve lives and communities is inspiring, and it extends to our own associates. We were pleased to once again be recognized as one of Fortune's 100 best companies to work for, with a ranking of 57, up from 71 last year, on this year's list of America's leading employers and workplaces. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to John for more on our operating results. John?John Gallina -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Gail, and good morning to everyone on the line. As Gail mentioned, we delivered strong first quarter results, including GAAP earnings per share of $7.39 and adjusted earnings per share of $8.25, reflecting growth of approximately 18% year over year. Our first quarter results demonstrate continued momentum across all of our businesses, driven by the execution of our enterprise strategy, the benefits of investments in key capabilities, and the balance and resilience of our core benefits business. We ended the first quarter with 46.8 million members, up 3.3 million or 7.5% year over year, with nearly three quarters of the growth being organic. In fact, we generated organic growth in each of our Medicaid, Medicare, commercial risk, and commercial fee-based businesses. Membership grew by 1.4 million lives in the quarter alone, driven by the strongest national account selling season in Anthem's history and aided by the acquisition of Ohio Medicaid members from Paramount Advantage. Commercial membership is off to an especially strong start this year as Anthem's integrated solutions, which focus on whole health, the customer experience, and total cost of care continue to resonate in the employer market. Our brand value and unique product offering, leveraging our deep local roots and value-based provider partnerships, also continued to gain traction with consumers. For example, in the ACA exchange market, we delivered individual membership growth of 8% in the quarter or 12% year over year. The Medicare open enrollment period was also consistent with our expectations as we remain on track to produce double-digit organic enrollment growth in our individual Medicare Advantage business. This includes strong growth in our dual special needs plans, where our strategic investments targeting specific benefit categories continue to attract consumers with complex and chronic health needs. In Medicaid, we overcame a significant membership headwind to start the year as additional carriers entered two of our existing markets, and we still ended the quarter up 319,000 net new members. In addition to continued organic membership growth, the acquisition of Paramount Advantages Ohio Medicaid members in February added 256,000 members in the quarter. We're very excited about this strategic acquisition, which provides Anthem scale in Ohio's Medicaid program, ahead of the future launch of the new contract we were awarded last year. First quarter operating revenue of $37.9 billion increased $5.8 billion or 18% over the prior-year quarter, with strong growth in each and every one of our businesses. We earned higher premium revenue due to the growth in Medicaid membership, the acquisition of MMM and Paramount, and the individual Medicare Advantage and commercial risk-based enrollment growth, in addition to premium rate increases to cover overall cost trends. We also produced strong double-digit organic growth in our IngenioRx and Diversified Business Group businesses. Our services businesses are off to a strong start this year as IngenioRx's value proposition is gaining traction in the market. The Diversified Business Group continues to execute on the strategy we articulated at our investor day in March of 2021, growing both unaffiliated and unaffiliated operating earnings across its portfolio of best-in-class assets. In the first quarter, DBG continued to grow its risk-based arrangements with our commercial health plans, consistent with our strategy. With the risk transfer between businesses, we expect more seasonality in DBG's earnings with a larger proportion of full year earnings in the first quarter relative to prior years and a decrease in the seasonality inherent in the commercial business. It is important to note that this affects seasonality only. Our annual segment target margins for the commercial and specialty business division are unchanged. Revenue eliminated in consolidation representing inter-segment business grew 23% year over year and represented 21.4% of benefit expense in the first quarter, up from 20.7% in the same period a year ago. Anthem's consolidated benefit expense ratio for the first quarter was 86.1%, an increase of 50 basis points over the first quarter of 2021, primarily driven by the continued shift in mix of business toward government, which has a higher medical loss ratio. Relative to our expectations as of mid-January, when the omicron surge was still peaking and the terms of the at-home COVID testing coverage rule had just been released, our medical cost structure developed meaningfully better than our original guidance ranges, driven by a lower net impact from COVID. Specifically, the omicron surge dissipated faster than we had expected in February while producing lower acuity COVID cases relative to prior surges. This, combined with the absence of any material stockpiling or abuse of free at-home COVID tests, helped drive favorability in the first quarter benefit expense ratio relative to our initial guidance. Even with these positives, the overall cost of care in the quarter was still above what we would consider to be a normalized level. Anthem's SG&A expense ratio in the first quarter was 11.5% on a GAAP basis, a decrease of 70 basis points over the prior-year quarter. The decrease was driven by expense leverage associated with strong growth in operating revenue, partially offset by higher investments to support our growth and digital transformation. First quarter operating cash flow was $2.5 billion or 1.4 times net income. Please note that we continue to expect to pay our share of the BCBSA litigation settlement of approximately $500 million later in 2022, which was included in the guidance we provided for full year operating cash flow of greater than $6.9 billion, as we discussed on our fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. As of the end of the first quarter, Anthem's debt-to-cap ratio was 39.2%, in line with our expectations and well within our target range. Consistent with our approach throughout the pandemic, we maintained a prudent posture with respect to reserves. Days in claims payable stood at 46.9 days at the end of the first quarter, an increase of 1.7 days from yearend and in line with the first quarter of 2021. Medical claims payable once again grew faster than premium revenue in the first quarter relative to the prior year. With respect to our outlook, we are pleased to have delivered a stronger-than-anticipated start to the year. Outperformance in the first quarter has increased our confidence in our ability to grow adjusted earnings per share, 12% to 15% in 2022, off the adjusted baseline of $25.20, in line with our long-term target. We now expect benefit expense ratio for the full year to be at the midpoint or in the lower half of our initial full year guidance range for this metric. Given the strong start to the year, we now expect to produce adjusted net income per share greater than $28.40, representing growth of at least 12.7% from our adjusted baseline. With the recent extension of the federal public health emergency, we also now expect Medicaid redeterminations will begin later than we had previously assumed. While the extension will enable us to maintain our Medicaid membership longer, please note that we will also incur increased cost associated with the PHE and our Medicare and commercial risk-based businesses for an additional three months. Importantly, Anthem is uniquely well-positioned to navigate the end of the public health emergency and to support continuity of care for Medicaid members who lose access to Medicaid by providing a robust set of commercial offerings. The momentum we have in each of our businesses, coupled with the balance and resilience of our core benefits business, should allow us to maintain healthy levels of membership while continuing to scale our diversified services operations. Consistent with this strategy, we are well-positioned to continue delivering against the financial targets we shared at our March 2021 investor conference. In that context, I want to point out that while we are excited by strong growth in our commercial business and the expansion of our risk-based arrangements with our Diversified Business Group, the operating margin of the commercial and specialty division remains challenged by the net impacts of COVID. However, while the year-over-year margin performance in our reportable segments table includes the impact of the seasonality shift I mentioned earlier, the underlying performance of the business is better than the optics. Relatedly, we would caution against analyzing first quarter operating profit of the other segment, which includes the Diversified Business Group and the impact of the seasonality shift in that business. Importantly, the expanded risk-sharing arrangements with DBG have no impact on our full year margin expectations for the commercial and specialty business. We expect commercial margins to recover as the effects of the pandemic subside. We also anticipate strong earnings growth in our Medicare business. These opportunities, coupled with the expectation of continued strong double-digit growth in our services businesses, Anthem's programmatic approach to M&A, and our opportunistic focus on share repurchases leave Anthem uniquely well-positioned for growth in the coming years. With that, operator, we will now open up the line for questions. 