  OperatorGood morning, and welcome to the Conagra Brands third quarter fiscal year 2022 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Bayle Ellis. Please go ahead.Bayle Ellis -- Investor Relations Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us. I'll remind you that we will be making some forward-looking statements today. While we are making those statements in good faith, we do not have any guarantee about the results we will achieve.

 



 Descriptions of risk factors are included in the documents we filed with the SEC. Also, we will be discussing some non-GAAP financial measures. References to adjusted items, including organic net sales, refer to measures that exclude items management believes impact the comparability for the period referenced. Please see the earnings release for additional information on our comparability item.The GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations can be found in either the earnings press release or the earnings slides, both of which can be found in the investor relations section of our website, conagrabrands.com. With that, I'll turn it over to Sean. Sean Connolly -- President and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Bayle. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our third quarter fiscal 2022 earnings call. Today, Dave and I will detail our results for the quarter and our updated outlook for the remainder of the year. We'll then open the line to your questions.

 



 I'd like to start with the key messages we want to share with you this morning. As we navigate a dynamic external environment, our team delivered a solid Q3 that was largely in line with our expectations on the top line and adjusted EPS. We remained laser-focused on successfully executing the Conagra Way playbook by creating superior products and ensuring physical and mental availability to create lasting connections between consumers and our brands. This enabled us to deliver a robust plus 6% organic net sales growth for the third quarter in line with what we expected. The strength of our top line can be measured both in the absolute and relative to peers as we gain share in key categories on a one- and two-year basis. And it's important to note that in response to inflation-driven pricing that has been executed in the market to date, elasticities have been favorable to historical patterns, even more so than what we expected. Unit demand remained strong as consumers continue to recognize the superior relative value that our portfolio provides. As worldwide events contributed to an already challenging environment, our teams remained agile and nimble to respond effectively and continued to serve our customers. Our third quarter results reflect strong contributions from our latest innovations. And we have another exciting innovation slate planned for fiscal 2023. But we also experienced higher-than-anticipated inflation as the third quarter unfolded. In the face of these heightened costs, we again made the deliberate decision to continue to invest to service orders and meet the strong consumer demand for our products, ensuring physical availability as an important part of maintaining and building trust and loyalty with consumers. While these strategic investments contributed to margin compression in Q3, we believe making them was the right decision as we positioned Conagra for the long term. Ultimately, we landed Q3 EPS a bit differently than we previously anticipated, but we did get there. Our adjusted Q3 EPS actualized in line with our expectations. Above-forecasted performance in our Ardent Mills joint venture offset incremental Q3 inflation headwinds.

 



 As we look to the remainder of the fiscal year, the environment isn't getting much easier in the near term. We now expect an additional $100 million of market inflation in Q4. The updated Q4 inflation forecast equates to a 26% increase versus two years ago. As we will detail further today, this higher-than-expected inflation is disproportionately impacting some of our strongest businesses, including meat snacks and frozen. Keep in mind that these businesses rely on inputs, like protein and dairy, which are harder to offset in the short term, and that frozen requires more specialized temperature control transportation. But as we started to see this latest wave of inflation coming, we took action on pricing just as we have throughout the year. These new pricing moves go into effect in Q1 of fiscal '23 and are highly targeted toward frozen and protein snacks. These businesses have been distinguished by innovation-driven sales growth, favorable elasticities, continued share gains, and limited private label competition. So, although we are experiencing pressure on our total company margins near term, we will see the benefits of the new pricing actions we've taken to offset this latest wave of inflation beginning in Q1 of fiscal '23. With this context, we're updating our outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2022. Our updated outlook reflects expectations for continued strong consumer demand for our product and lower-than-historical elasticities, as well as the further increase in our gross inflation expectations for the year and the timing of the related pricing actions. Specifically, we now expect organic net sales for the year to be plus 4%, and we project adjusted diluted EPS to land at about $2.35, which translates to approximately $2.65 of earnings power when taking into account the impact of the lag between inflation and our in-market pricing this fiscal year. And with that overview, let's dig into the quarter. As you can see on Slide 6, our team delivered solid Q3 results in the face of a highly dynamic and challenging operating environment. On a two-year CAGR basis, organic net sales for the third quarter increased at just under 8% and adjusted EPS grew by over 11%. Looking at Slide 7, you can see that we continued to grow sales on both a one- and two-year basis. Total Conagra domestic retail sales were up 18.5% on a two-year basis in the quarter. We also continued to gain share in the quarter with our category weighted share growth up on both a one- and two-year basis. And on a relative basis, our share performance continued to compare favorably to the industry overall and to our largest peers. Slide 8 demonstrates that we gained category share at levels that outpaced our top 15 peers during the quarter. If you take a look at the chart on the right, the share gains in our frozen and snacks domains were particularly notable. As you can see on Slide 9, our performance in frozen and snacks has driven our total Conagra share gains fiscal year to date and during the third quarter. Importantly, our categories are healthy, attractive, and growing. As you can see from the chart on the left, our frozen and snacks domains have grown nearly 8% and 9% during the fiscal year to date and third quarter, respectively. So, we're not just gaining share, we're gaining share in some of the most attractive parts of the store. These results are holding, notwithstanding our need to put significant inflation-driven pricing into the market. On Slide 10, you can see the extent of our recent actions, which increased in Q3 and have accelerated over the last five weeks. On-shelf prices for our brands rose across all three domestic retail domains compared to the same period a year ago with inflation-driven price increases most concentrated in frozen and protein snacks. We implement these pricing actions, we're watching the impact on volumes closely, and we are pleased that the price elasticity has remained below historical levels. Slide 11 demonstrates that unit sales have remained consistently positive on a two-year basis, even as the on-shelf prices for our brands have increased. This dynamic is a testament to the fact that despite the broad-based inflationary environment we're operating in, the targeted nature of our inflation-driven pricing actions and the superior relative value of our products continue to resonate with our customers and consumers. A great example of this is our Banquet brand in our frozen business. As we've discussed before, the Banquet brand is a mainstay in American households and has undergone considerable modernization to ensure that the brand delivers on its promise of relevant flavors, hearty portions, and a great value. Consumers see the relative quality and availability of our Banquet products and continue to choose Banquet despite inflation-driven price increases. Banquet's volume has remained consistent as prices went up in stark contrast to a key competitor. We see a similar story in our snacks domain with Slim Jim, another brand that has made lasting connections with its consumers through perpetual modernization, relevancy, and availability. Despite the increased cost of protein and associated pricing actions, Slim Jim volumes have increased considerably, far outpacing a key competitor. In addition to strong relative performance compared with other branded products, we also continue to maintain share relative to private label products. Slide 14 shows private label dollar share across the edible industry at large, across the categories in which Conagra competes, and across Conagra's frozen and snacking categories specifically. Two things stand out about this chart. First, we compete in parts of the store with less private label penetration than the edible space at large. And second, the share of private label sales has remained stable amid the highly inflationary environment over the past several years. We believe the data shows that consumers are finding comfort in the quality, reliability, and familiarity that national brands provide, particularly modernized brands like those in our portfolio. And we have not backed off from our modernization focus in the current environment. Innovation has remained a key to our success. Slide 15 shows the impact of our disciplined approach to delivering new products and a modernized portfolio. During the third quarter, our innovation outperformed with the strong results we delivered in the year-ago period. And once again, our innovation rose to the top of the pack in several key categories, including with toppings, frozen vegetables, and frozen plant-based meat alternatives. And we have another exciting lineup of new innovations set to hit the shelves during fiscal 2023. The new products you see on Slide 16 are already being accepted by customers who have come to respect the innovation and marketing engine at Conagra and our ability to drive demand in key categories. Our ongoing investments in e-commerce also continue to yield strong results in the third quarter. We delivered compelling quarterly growth in our $1 billion e-commerce business as we outpaced the entire total edible category in terms of e-commerce retail sales growth in Q3, building on our momentum from fiscal 2021. Looking at the chart on the right, you can see that our e-commerce business has continued to grow as a percentage of our total retail sales as we continue to invest behind supporting our brands. I'd like to briefly detail our performance across our three retail domains, starting with our frozen business on Slide 18. Frozen continues to be one of the strongest businesses in our portfolio and offers convenience and quality that make it the perfect fit for today's consumer. In Q3, we continued to deliver strong growth on both a one- and two-year basis. And within this domain, meat substitutes, single-serve meals, desserts, and multi-serve meals were the main drivers of our results. Driven by the appeal of our products to the consumer and the investments we've made in brand building and innovation, our leading frozen portfolio again grew share in Q3, both in the domain overall and within key categories. Now, let's talk about snacks. Slide 20 highlights the meaningful acceleration in retail sales growth that we've experienced in our snacks business. In the third quarter, our snacks business grew 11% year over year. That equates to more than 30% growth over the same period in 2020. Within snacks, we have seen growth across key categories highlighted by more than 20% year-over-year growth in meat snacks. Similar to our frozen business. Our Snacks portfolio is gaining share in this large and growing domain. We delivered share gains in multiple snack categories, including several popcorn categories, meat snacks, and hot cocoa. Our staples retail sales have also been growing over a two-year period, and that trend continued in Q3. Specifically, we saw very large increases in retail sales for refrigerated whipped toppings and cooking spray, both of which were up over 25% in Q3 on a two-year basis. Since the onset of COVID-19, many consumers have rediscovered their kitchens, reinvigorating the relevance of our staples portfolio. As demonstrated on Slide 23, our staples portfolio has increased its share during this critical time frame, with two-year share gains across many key categories, including Asian sauces, refrigerated whipped toppings, syrup, Sloppy Joe, and canned meat. When you take a step back and look across our portfolio and the retail domains in which we operate, you see broad-based strength and healthy categories. We are driving growth, gaining share in attractive categories, and remain disciplined in executing the Conagra Way to create lasting connections with consumers. The health of our business is what will enable us to deliver profitable growth for the long term. In the immediate, however, we face a volatile cost environment that continues to be very challenging. As the third quarter unfolded, our expectations for full year fiscal 2022 gross inflation increased from approximately 14% to approximately 16%. The biggest driver of this change is the market inflation that we now expect for Q4. At the time of our Q2 call, we expected Q4 gross inflation of about 11%. Today, we expect a Q4 gross inflation of approximately 16%. On a two-year basis, Q4 gross inflation is expected to be an unprecedented 26%. And as I noted earlier, these incremental costs are disproportionately impacting our strong frozen and snacks businesses, both rely on inputs like protein and dairy, which are harder to offset in the short term and, in the case of frozen, require specialized temperature-controlled transportation. As noted on Slide 25, we're updating our guidance for the full year to reflect the trends I just covered. We now expect organic net sales growth of approximately 4%, adjusted operating margin to be approximately 14.5%, adjusted EPS to be approximately $2.35, and, as I just mentioned, we're updating our gross inflation guidance to approximately 16%. We're also providing guidance for the fourth quarter to reflect the higher-estimated inflation and the lag in the offsetting pricing actions. In Q4, we expect organic net sales growth of approximately 7%, adjusted operating margin of approximately 15.5%, adjusted EPS of approximately $0.64, and gross inflation of approximately 16%. While the environment remains challenging, our team continues to stay focused on executing our Conagra Way playbook and positioning our business for long-term growth and value creation. We delivered strong sales growth and continue to gain share, particularly in our healthy and growing frozen and snacks categories, both of which continue to resonate with consumers despite necessary price adjustments to help offset the impact of inflation. While accelerated inflation has put pressure on our near-term earnings, we're confident in our ability to offset the impact with additional inflation-driven pricing actions. And overall, due to the strength of our brands and consistent approach to creating lasting connections with consumers, we are confident in the underlying health of the business and the many value creation opportunities ahead. We hope to see you at our upcoming investor day on July 28 at the New York Stock Exchange, where the team and I will be sharing more on our plans for the future. We look forward to seeing many of you there in person. Now that I've highlighted our performance for the quarter, I'll turn it over to Dave to provide more detail on our financials.Dave Marberger -- Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Sean. And good morning, everyone. I'll start by reviewing our quarterly results at a summary level as shown here on Slide 28. As Sean discussed, we delivered strong organic net sales of plus 6% in Q3, reflecting the continued relevancy of our portfolio to consumers. We experienced better-than-anticipated elasticities on volume in the face of our inflation-driven price increases. Inflation pressures accelerated as Q3 unfolded as reflected in our Q3 operating margin. At the same time, our Ardent Mills joint venture reflected in the equity earnings line had a strong quarter, driven by favorable market conditions. Q3 adjusted EPS of $0.58 was largely in line with our expectations, down 1.7% versus prior year and up 11.1% on a two-year compounded growth basis. Overall, a very solid Q3 financial performance, given the volatile operating environment. We show a breakdown of our Q3 net sales bridge on Slide 29. Our 6% organic net sales growth was driven by a strong price mix increase of 8.6%, reflecting the inflation-driven pricing actions we have taken in every segment of our business over the last year. Volume declined 2.6%, primarily due to the elasticity impacts of the price increases, along with supply constraints on certain refrigerated and frozen products. Looking at reported net sales drivers, the divestitures of our peanut butter and egg beaters businesses drove an 80 basis-point decline, and foreign exchange was an additional 10 basis-point headwind. Together, these factors contributed to 5.1% growth in total Conagra net sales for the quarter versus a year ago. Slide 30 shows our Q3 net sales summary by reporting segment on a one- and two-year basis. We delivered organic net sales growth across each of our segments this quarter due to inflation-driven pricing and continued strong consumer demand. Growth was particularly strong within our foodservice segment, where volume continued to rebound as restaurant traffic recovers from the impact of COVID-19. Foodservice third quarter organic net sales were in line with pre-COVID sales levels. Within our two domestic retail businesses, both grocery and snacks, and refrigerated and frozen, delivered strong price mix results for the quarter. Volumes were down a bit more in refrigerated and frozen than in grocery and snacks as we had some higher-than-expected supply disruptions in refrigerated and frozen in the quarter associated with labor and materials challenges. But we expect this dynamic to improve as we progress through Q4. For Total Conagra, organic net sales grew at a two-year compounded growth rate of 7.8% in the third quarter. We show the operating profit and margin summary of each of our reporting segments on Slide 31. Adjusted operating profit was down 9.9% in Q3 and was essentially flat on a two-year compounded basis. As you can see from our results, inflation and cost pressures were most concentrated in our refrigerated and frozen segment this quarter. I have a slide later in my remarks with specifics. But at a summary level, as Q3 unfolded, we began to experience higher-than-anticipated inflation on protein and higher cost in the temperature-controlled transportation network, both of which are harder to offset in the short term. But as you heard from Sean, our frozen businesses continue to win with consumers. While we look forward to getting back to a more normalized cost environment, we believe that our frozen portfolio is well-positioned to support the additional price increases that the current inflationary environment require. We've recently announced new pricing actions for our frozen businesses, as well as for our protein snacking businesses, which are also experiencing elevated levels of inflation. We will see the benefits of these new pricing actions in Q1 of fiscal year '23. Page 32 summarizes Total Conagra operating margin, excluding Ardent Mills for the third quarter. This page really highlights the significant impact that inflation had on the business in the third quarter. Q3 total market inflation was 15.4% and negatively impacted operating margin by 10.6 percentage points in the quarter. This inflation level was higher than what we estimated when we discussed our outlook with you following Q2. And it's driven the additional pricing actions I just mentioned. The good news is that our 8.6% increase in price mix in sales translated to 5.7 percentage points of operating margin improvement in the quarter. We also delivered 1.5 percentage points of productivity improvement, net of operational offsets, in the quarter. Our teams were able to deliver this level of net productivity even in the face of meaningful labor disruption. The level of base productivity we achieved in our plants and our production output were both challenged in Q3 due to omicron-related labor disruption. But with the labor situation now starting to stabilize, we expect these headwinds to abate as we progress through Q4. We also saw marginal benefits from A&P and adjusted SG&A savings in Q3. These factors combined to deliver adjusted operating margin of 13.7% for the third quarter. Turning to Slide 33, you can see our adjusted EPS bridge for the quarter. The operating profit drivers I just discussed resulted in a $0.06 decrease in adjusted EPS versus Q3 of last year. The primary operating profit headwind was the 15.4% inflation rate. The other major headwind in Q3 was the unfavorable operating efficiencies related to labor disruptions in our operations that I just mentioned. The tailwinds for the quarter were the significant price mix benefits and realized productivity that we delivered. We also had lower SG&A and A&P costs in the quarter. Q3 EPS was also favorably impacted by a lower weighted average interest rate on outstanding debt and by a very strong quarter from Ardent Mills. Given the nature of Ardent's business, it can benefit from volatile market conditions. Although Ardent income is recorded below operating margin in our financial statements, it is a cash-generating business that has performed well in this highly inflationary environment. As you've seen in our materials this morning, the highly inflationary environment has caused us to reduce our adjusted EPS guidance for the year. However, we believe it's important to provide some additional details on how we view the underlying earnings power of our portfolio, which we believe is strong. On a pro forma basis, we estimate that fiscal '22 adjusted EPS approximate $2.65 versus the updated guidance of $2.35 we're sharing today. So, what does that $2.65 represent? First, as you can see on the chart, it incorporates the impact of the updated market inflation estimate we're now expecting in Q4, driving a reduction in our previous EPS estimate of about $0.18. The $2.65 also reflects estimated favorability of approximately $0.03 versus the previous full year EPS estimate for Ardent Mills. Beyond those items, the $2.65 reflects our estimate of all the pricing lags we faced this fiscal year. As you've heard us discuss in recent quarters, the reality of a CPG food business is that inflation hits the P&L before a corresponding pricing response can be executed with customers. Generally, that lag is about 90 days. We've estimated the impact of our pricing lags net of elasticities for fiscal year '22. We believe that the full year impact of these lags is approximately $0.30. This estimated impact excludes our foodservice and international segments, as we only quantified it for the domestic retail businesses. Of course, it's important to understand what this estimate represents. It is not our fiscal year '23 EPS guidance. We will provide more insight on our expectations for fiscal '23 after fiscal year '22 ends. But it is our estimate of what adjusted EPS might have been in fiscal '22 if price increases were effective at the same time that inflation actually hit our P&L, better demonstrating the underlying earnings power of the business. Slide 35 breaks down our revised inflation expectations a bit further. As you can see, the expected inflation rate for Q4 is the biggest delta compared to our previous expectations. If you look at the chart on the right, Q4 inflation is expected to be approximately 26% versus two years ago. Clearly, an unprecedented level of market inflation that we are managing through. Slide 36 goes into more detail on where we saw this inflation impact on our supply chain most severely in the third quarter and where the bulk of the incremental 100 million of new inflation is coming from. As Sean and I have both mentioned, transportation and proteins were particularly challenging in Q3, and remained so as we started Q4. Dairy has also been a headwind versus our prior expectations. Let's talk a bit more about each of these. Beginning with transportation, Q3 costs were heavily impacted by driver and truck availability, which resulted in more inflationary pressures from spot market usage and rates. Additionally, as you are all aware, fuel prices were driven up significantly during the quarter due to unforeseen worldwide events. With respect to proteins and dairy, we also saw Q3 inflation at rates higher than previously forecasted. Meat-based proteins are difficult to hedge, and current industry freezer inventory positions are at multi-year lows. This supply dynamic limits our ability to build our freezer stock inventory, which is our typical coverage strategy. For a bit more perspective on cost, our total meat-based protein spend in fiscal '21 approximated $675 million. For fiscal '22, we now estimate total meat-based protein market inflation of approximately 50%, which is approximately $340 million of additional market cost in this one commodity area, driving nearly 40% of our total gross materials inflation in fiscal '22. In summary, these three categories alone are estimated to drive $0.16 of the incremental gross cost inflation we're now expecting for Q4. Turning to the balance sheet and cash flows, we stayed the course on our balanced capital allocation approach this quarter. As outlined on Slide 37, we reduced net debt by approximately $240 million in Q3, getting our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio to 4.2 times. As more of our pricing actions flow through our balance sheet in the fourth quarter, we expect this leverage ratio to drop to approximately 3.9 times. We remain committed to an investment-grade credit rating and to our long-term net leverage target of roughly 3.5 times. I'll wrap up with a repeat of the updated guidance that Sean walked you through. Our new fiscal '22 and Q4 guidance are shown on Slide 38. As you've heard from us this morning, we expect our strong top-line momentum to continue with benefits from our pricing actions and favorable elasticities, driving organic net sales growth of approximately 7% in Q4 and approximately 4% for the full year, up from approximately 3% in our previous guidance and up from approximately flat in our original fiscal '22 guidance. Because of the incremental inflation we have discussed today and the additional lag in the pricing actions, we are estimating Q4 EPS to approximate $0.64, a strong increase of 18.5% versus the prior year. This results in EPS for fiscal year '22 of approximately $2.35, down from approximately $2.50. We also now expect market inflation for the year to approximate 16%, up from approximately 14%. And we expect adjusted operating margin to be approximately 15.5% in Q4 and approximately 14.5% for the full year. We remain confident in the brand strength and underlying earnings power of our business. Following the Conagra Way playbook, we continue to invest in our brands to create innovative products that resonate with consumers, and we believe these investments have positioned our portfolio well to manage through this challenging environment. We look forward to diving deeper into the progress we have made and the future opportunities we see at our upcoming investor day scheduled for July 28th in New York City. You will also hear from our new supply chain leader, Ale Eboli, who will review the strategic actions we are planning to drive further efficiencies in our supply chain. We will also communicate our algorithm for longer-term financial performance. We look forward to seeing many of you then. Thank you for listening, everyone. That concludes my prepared remarks today. I'll now hand it back to the operator for questions. 