
OperatorGood day and welcome to Xcel Energy's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. Questions will only be taken from institutional investors. Reporters can contact Media Relations with inquiries, and individual investors and others can reach out to Investor Relations. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Paul Johnson, Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.Paul Andrew Johnson -- Vice President of Investor RelationsGood morning and welcome to Xcel Energy's 2021 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Joining me today are Bob Frenzel, President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian Van Abel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Amanda Rome, Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and a few others. This morning, we will review our 2021 results, share recent business and regulatory developments, update our capital and financing plan and provide 2022 guidance. slides that accompany today's call are available on our website. As a reminder, some of the comments during today's call may contain forward-looking information. Significant factors that could cause results to differ from those anticipated are described in our earnings release and our SEC filings.

 



Today, we will discuss certain metrics that are non-GAAP measures, including ongoing earnings and electric and natural gas margins. Information on the comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations are included in our earnings release. With that, I'll turn it over to Bob.Robert C. Frenzel -- President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorThank you, Paul. Good morning, everybody. Today, we reported solid third quarter earnings of $1.13 per share compared with $1.14 per share last year. And given our strong year-to-date results, we're narrowing our 2021 guidance to $2.94 to $2.98 per share. We're also initiating 2022 guidance of $3.10 to $3.20 per share, which reflects our 5% to 7% long-term EPS growth objective. Consistent with our past tradition, we've updated our base investment plan, reflecting $26 billion of capital expenditures over the next five years, which provides significant benefits to our customers and supports community vitality. This investment plan delivers rate base growth of 6.5% off of a projected 2021 year-end rate base.This plan is robust, but there are certain investment opportunities that are not included in our base plan, including potential renewable generation assets authorized in our Minnesota or Colorado resource plan proceedings and additional transmission capital that's needed to integrate new renewable generation additions in Colorado beyond the base Colorado power pathway proposal. The base plan also does not include any capital for green hydrogen production for our LDC or generation needs, which we believe could be material over the balance of the decade. We have our hydrogen pilot at the Prairie Island Nuclear Plant, and we're exploring five to eight additional greenfield and brownfield projects.

 



And with favorable state backdrops in Minnesota and in Colorado, which have passed clean fuel legislation as well as a potential for a federal hydrogen production tax credit, we believe that our favorable renewable generation conditions will help us push beyond pilots and into green hydrogen production resources that can be valuable to a clean energy future. I'm very excited about our investment plan, which supports continued execution of our long-term strategy and clean energy leadership. It provides for sustainability of our local communities, enhances reliability and resiliency, advances our fleet transition, keeps customer bills low and delivers attractive returns for our investors.We're well positioned for sustainable organic growth over the next decade, including renewable additions in our proposed Minnesota and Colorado resource plans and the transmission needed to enable those carbon-free resources. Together, our resource plans are going to add nearly 10,000 megawatts of renewables to our system and achieve an 85% carbon reduction by 2030, while keeping customer bills at or below the rate of inflation. We expect decisions on both the Minnesota and the Colorado resource plans in the first quarter of next year. The clean energy transition is also going to need substantial transmission investment.We continue to make good progress in the Colorado power pathway transmission project, which is essential for us to deliver on our Colorado energy resource plan. It will enable over 5,500 megawatts of new renewables in the state, and it's vital as we explore further western market integration over time. To date, comments from most parties have been generally supportive, and we expect the commission decision in the first quarter of 2022. In the Midwest, MISO has experienced some minor delays, but we still expect MTEP21 to be announced in the first half of next year.We also had a strong operational quarter. Our industry-leading nuclear fleet set another record, with two units having run over 700 consecutive days prior to their refueling outages. Another highlight this quarter was the dedication of the 300-megawatt Bighorn solar facility at the EVRAZ steel mill in Pueblo, Colorado. In partnership with Lightsource bp and state and local leaders, we've enabled the largest on-site solar array in the country serving a single customer. This is a really creative solution between multiple parties to ensure the continued operation and expansion of the steel mill and its 1,100 employees. It reduces carbon emissions and creates valuable property tax base that helps sustain the local economy.

 



We also continue to partner with our states and OEMs to electrify the transportation sector. This quarter, we implemented new programs for our Colorado customers that will help us to achieve our goal of enabling 1.5 million electric vehicles across our states by 2030. We appreciate the collaboration with so many stakeholders as we collectively work to reduce carbon emissions and enable sustainable communities. We remain well positioned with a sound strategy, a robust five-year capital plan, and sustainable long-term growth trajectory that provides attractive returns to our investors, while keeping bills low for our customers. These plans are not dependent on changes in federal policy.However, it's our understanding that Biden administration has reached an agreement on a framework for the reconciliation package, which would include extensions for investment tax credits and production tax credits, a solar and a hydrogen production tax credit, a storage and a transmission investment tax credit and direct pay options for all tax credits. This proposed plan creates significant customer benefits by lowering the cost of our proposed resource plans and potentially accelerating our clean energy transition. Our steel for fuel program has demonstrated our geographic advantages in renewables.Proposed tax credit expenses for ITCs and PTCs, including the solar production tax credit, will make future projects even more competitive, providing additional benefit to our customers. Additionally, a direct pay option would provide greater financial flexibility, increased corporate cash flow and credit metrics, which would reduce our financing needs. A PTC for green hydrogen would also bring significant value and technology advancement and costs. It could help accelerate the time frame in which we could begin incorporating hydrogen into power generation and into our natural gas distribution operations at a cost that's more economic for our customers.While discussions continue at the federal level on the final bill, we are optimistic that this plan will be passed and will have significant benefits to our customers. With that, I'll turn it over to Brian.Brian J. Van Abel -- Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThanks, Bob, and good morning, everyone. We had a solid third quarter, recording $1.13 per share compared with $1.14 per share last year. On a year-to-date basis, our earnings are $0.13 per share ahead of last year. The most significant earnings drivers for the quarter include the following: Higher electric and natural gas margins increased earnings by $0.04 per share primarily driven by riders and regulatory outcomes to recover our capital investments. Lower O&M expenses increased earnings by $0.02 per share. And in addition, the lower effective tax rate increased earnings by $0.01 per share.As a reminder, production tax credits lowered the ETR. However, PTCs are flowed back to customers through lower electric margin and are largely earnings neutral. Offsetting these positive drivers were increased depreciation expense, which reduced earnings by $0.03 per share reflecting our capital investment program. Lower AFUDC decreased earnings by $0.02 per share, largely due to placing several large wind farms into service last year. And other items combined to reduce earnings by $0.03 per share.Turning to sales. Weather-adjusted electric sales increased by 2.4% in the third quarter, while our year-to-date electric sales increased 1.9%. Given our year-to-date results and the continued economic rebound in our states, we're updating our full year weather-adjusted electric sales growth to approximately 1.5% to 2%. Shifting to expenses. O&M expenses declined 1.9% for the quarter and increased 2.6% on a year-to-date basis. Quarterly O&M expense comparisons are noisy with the COVID impacts from last year, but overall, we expect our O&M expenses to increase approximately 1% for the year.Turning to regulatory. We reached a comprehensive settlement in Colorado, and are making strong progress on potential Texas rate case settlement. As a reminder, last quarter we reached constructive settlements in our Wisconsin, New Mexico and North Dakota rate cases. In October, we reached a comprehensive settlement with the Colorado staff in the Colorado Energy office that proposes to resolve several regulatory proceedings. Key terms include: we will fully recover all Winter Storm Uri deferred fuel costs over 24 months for electric and over 30 months from the natural gas LDC customers, with no carrying charges through a rider. Please note, the Uri Storm cost estimate for Colorado was revised to $550 million.We will refund to electric customers approximately $41 million of previously deferred revenue associated with the 2020 decoupling program. We'll forgo recovery of approximately $14 million of replacement power costs incurred due to an extended Comanche three outage during 2020. And we will not seek recovery of approximately $11 million of deferred COVID-19 bad debt expense. We are pleased that we were able to reach this comprehensive settlement, which represents compromises from all the parties and take steps to mitigate the customer impact of the Uri cost recovery. We expect a commission decision in the first half of 2022.In terms of pending rate cases, we are making progress in settlement discussions in our Texas case. As a result, the hearing schedule has been abated, and we are hopeful that we'll ultimately be able to reach a settlement agreement. We expect a decision on our Colorado electric case in March of next year with new rates effective in April. As a reminder, we're seeking a net rate increase of approximately $343 million based on an ROE of 10% and equity ratio of 55.6% in the 2022 forecast test year. The case is largely driven by capital investment. In October, we filed the Minnesota electric rate case seeking a net increase of $677 million over three years.The filing is based on a requested ROE of 10.2% and equity ratio of 52.5% in forecast test years. We requested interim rates of $288 million to be implemented in January 2022. Finally, we plan to file a Minnesota gas rate case in early November with interim rates going into effect in January of 2022. We also plan to file a stay-out option as we look to help mitigate bill impacts of Uri cost recovery for our customers. As Bob mentioned, we have issued a robust $26 billion five-year capital forecast, which is detailed in our earnings release. Our base capital plan results in rate base growth of approximately 6.5% using 2021 as a base.The base forecast reflects significant grid investment in our Colorado power pathway proposal and other transmission system investments to maintain asset health and reliability and enable renewable generation. The plan reflects a modest level of renewables including our proposed Sherco solar facility. It also includes two natural gas peaking plants to ensure reliability as we retire coal plants, along with investments to improve the customer experience. Beyond our base capital forecast, we anticipate potential incremental capital investment for renewables associated with the Minnesota and Colorado resource plans.Our proposed resource plans include approximately 2,000 megawatts of renewable additions from 2024 to 2026, which would result in incremental capital investment of $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion, assuming 50% ownership. In addition, we anticipate the need for incremental $500 million to $1 billion of related transmission for the Colorado IRP. Combined, we could see a potential incremental investment to support the clean energy transition of $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion in the latter part of this five-year forecast. We've also updated our financing plan, which reflects a combination of internal cash generation and debt issuances to fund the majority of our capital expenditures.We expect to issue $800 million of equity and $450 million of DRIP and benefits equity over the next five years. The financing plan maintains our current credit metrics and strong balance sheet, which is important for maintaining a low cost of capital for our customers. We expect the equity would likely be issued through an ATM over the five years. We anticipate that any incremental capital would be financed with approximately 50% equity and 50% debt. This incremental equity will allow us to fund accretive capital investments, which will benefit our customers while maintaining our solid credit ratings and favorable access to the capital markets.However, our equity needs could be significantly reduced if the reconciliation package is passed with the current framework. Shifting to earnings. We are initiating our 2022 earnings guidance range of $3.10 to $3.20 per share, which is consistent with our long-term EPS growth objective of 5% to 7%. Key assumptions are detailed in our earnings release. In addition, we've updated the base of our growth rate to $2.96 per share, which represents the midpoint of our revised 2021 guidance range. This represents 6.5% growth in the base between 2020 and 2021.With that, I'll wrap up with a quick summary. We reached a comprehensive settlement in Colorado that resolved several regulatory proceedings. We are making progress toward the settlement of our Texas rate case. We narrowed our 2021 guidance range to $2.94 to $2.98 per share. We announced a robust updated capital investment program that provides strong, transparent rate base growth and customer value. We initiated 2022 earnings guidance consistent with our long-term growth objective. And finally, we remain confident we can deliver long-term earnings and dividend growth within the upper half of our 5% to 7% objective range as we continue leading the clean energy transition and keeping bills low for our customers.This concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, we will now take questions.