
OperatorWelcome to Pioneer Natural Resources Third Quarter Conference Call. Joining us today will be Scott Sheffield, Chief Executive Officer; Rich Dealy, President and Chief Operating Officer; Joey Hall, Executive Vice President of Operations; and Neal Shah, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Pioneer has prepared PowerPoint slides to supplement their comments today. These slides can be accessed over the Internet at www.pxd.com. Again, the Internet site to access the slides related to today's call is www.pxd.com. At the website, select Investors, then select Earnings and Webcasts. This call is being recorded. A replay of the call will be archived on the Internet site through November 30, 2021. The company's comments today will include forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.These statements and business prospects of Pioneer are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties are described in Pioneer's news release, on page two of the slide presentation and in Pioneer's public filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission.At this time, for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to Pioneer's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Neal Shah. Please go ahead, sir.

 



Neal H. Shah -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, David. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for Pioneer's third quarter earnings conference call. Today, we will be discussing our excellent third quarter results and the strategic divestiture of our Delaware Basin assets. We will also discuss our peer-leading return of capital strategies and the strong ESG focus, as outlined in our recently published 2021 sustainability report and climate risk report. Then, we will open up the call for your questions.With that, I will turn the call over to Scott.Scott D. Sheffield -- Chief Executive Officer

 



Thank you, Neal. Good morning. I think, obviously, you can see from the headlines on slide three, that's probably one of the best quarters in Pioneer's 25-year history, which is coming up next year, our 25th year anniversary. It's hard to imagine a company like Pioneer thrown out just in one quarter, $1.1 billion in free cash flow, obviously, during the quarter. And returning $880 million of that in regard to a dividend, including base plus variable.Our dividend payments from the third quarter is $3.58 a share made up of $3.02 variable and $0.56 on the base. Probably the big headline from the quarter, tremendous transaction for Pioneer divesting of our Delaware assets for $3.25 billion. Expected to close by year-end. And when you add the $250 million recent divestiture from Glasscock County, that makes a total for the quarter of about $3.5 billion. We're increasing our base after talking to a lot of our shareholders over the last several weeks. I think it's very important to continue to increase our base.So we're increasing at over 10%. That will commence in January with that base dividend payment. And we continue to look at the significant increases over the next few years as our balance sheet continues to improve and if commodity prices continue to perform like they have been. Then lastly, again, Neal talked about it. We released our two reports. We'll talk about it later. But again, increasing our goals to 50% in greenhouse gas intensity reduction and 75% in regard to methane intensity.Turning the next on slide number four. Again, production in the upper half of the third quarter guidance. Rich will give you more detail in a few minutes in regard to the effect of what the Delaware sale does to us. I think the most important point here with the -- both divestitures of Glasscock County and the Delaware, obviously, we're now focused on the high-margin, high-return Midland Basin. We'll end up having the strongest balance sheet in the company's history. A debt-to-EBITDA of 0.4 by the end of the year. Going to our long-term thesis on slide number five.

 



Again, our focus to deliver mid-teens total return. When you look at one of the later slides, with a dividend yield of about 11% going to 2022, growing at 5% a year, that gets us to that mid-teens total return. When you look at just return on capital employed and ROCE going into '22 and beyond, we're in that low to mid-20s on both of those numbers. That's really unheard of in regard to the change in the strategy to keep production fairly flat, minimal growth and return most of the cash flow back to the investor. Reinvestment rate of 50% to 60% when you look at next year.It's really down in the 30% to 40% range. When you look at free cash flow generation, our free cash flow generation next year will be up 88% from 2021. When you look at a five year strip, we'll generate over $25 billion of free cash flow. If you just take current oil price today in the low 80s. The mid-80s, and keep it flat for the next five years, we're over $35 billion of free cash flow. When you just look at the strip pricing by the end of next year, we'll essentially, for the first time, be essentially debt-free by the end of 2022.So Pioneer will end up continuing to have one of the best balance sheets in the industry. As I mentioned in regard to our strong and growing annual base dividend, we went up over 10%. And we see, as long as our balance sheet stays in great shape, which we expect, commodity prices continue to stay strong. We'll continue to look at increases over and above our growth rate of 5%. Again, the variable dividend, up to 75% of previous quarter's free cash flow of deducting the base dividend. We'll be distributing about 80% of free cash flow back to the shareholders.Again, we restated we had a share repurchase program where we had spent about $900 million in 2019 and 2020. We actually are one of the few companies that bought during the pandemic, our stock back in the energy sector. We spent about $900 million and bought the stock back around $130 million. If you go back in history, the other time we bought our stock was back in 2005, 2006 after we sold our deepwater assets. We spent $1.1 billion at 45%. We do think it's important over the next five years if we do generate $25 billion to $35 billion of free cash flow that we significantly reduce the share count over time.But it is going to be opportunistic during market dislocations. I think the last key point here is that the fact our EBITDA will be up about 45% to 50% next year, primarily due to the full year of both acquisitions and secondly, with very minimal hedging in 2022. Going to slide number six. Again, significant increases in our variable dividend and also our base dividend. Basically, a nine times growth from '22 annual dividend over the 2020. Returning $1.6 billion in dividends in 2021, a three times increase from 2020. So we're estimating something near about $20 per share total payout in 2022. When you go to slide number seven to show Pioneer's dividend yield. It will exceed all peers and majors in the S&P 500.We're already at 8% just based on the one we declared for the fourth quarter of 2021. When you look at next year, we'll be 11%. The other two strong companies below us, obviously, are DeWitt and Cotera with strong variable dividends. But then you see a significant drop to the U.S. majors, European majors. Our dividend yield is over two times versus the U.S. and European majors. And when you look over the rest of the peers, excluding DeWitt and Cotera, we're basically a 10 times dividend times or 10 higher over the rest of the peers. When you look at the S&P 500, which is around 1.6%, we're over six times to seven times the S&P 500.I'll now turn it over to Neal to talk about our base.Neal H. Shah -- Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThank you, Scott. Slide eight demonstrates maintaining a strong and growing base dividend is a commitment to our shareholders and a key pillar of our investment thesis. As Scott stated earlier, we are further strengthening our base dividend with an increase of greater than 10%, which is an acceleration of our 2022 base dividend increase. Inclusive of this increase, as you can see in the graph, our five year base dividend compound annual growth rate of greater than 95% exceeds all peers and U.S. majors.Additionally, over the same period, while many peers have cut or suspended their base dividends, Pioneer has consistently maintained and grown its base dividend, demonstrating our steadfast commitment to our shareholders and creating value through dependable through-cycle return of capital. Turning to the next page, slide nine. Even with inflationary pressures surfacing in 2021, we continue to reduce our controllable cash costs, which are comprised of cash interest, cash G&A and Midland horizontal LOE.As a result of our high operational efficiencies and acquisition synergy capture, we expect 2021 cash cost to be approximately 30% lower than 2019 levels. Pioneer's unique combination of high oil cut, low controllable cash costs and top-tier NRI drive compelling cash margins that underpin our strong free cash flow generation and return of capital strategies.Now I will hand it over to Rich to cover our outlook update.Richard P. Dealy -- President and Chief Operating OfficerThanks, Neal. Good morning, everybody. I'm going to start on slide 10, where we show our updated production guidance for 2021. You'll see here that we've narrowed our full year production -- our oil production range to 356,000 to 359,000 barrels of oil per day and total production to 613,000 to 619,000 BOEs per day. This narrowed guidance reflects the combination of our reported production through September 30, and our Q4 guidance, which includes the impact of the Glasscock divestitures that happened in October.Due to the Delaware divestiture not closing until near year-end, our production guidance includes Delaware for a full year. And our capital guidance is unchanged, but also includes Delaware for a full year as well. I did see in the notes over the night that there was a couple of comments on our third quarter capital. I just wanted to hit that upfront that our capital in Q3 did include a fair amount of integration work that we did related to the Parsley and Double Point assets where we are upgrading their tank batteries and facilities to our standards.So that's what was driving a little higher capital. If you move to the fourth quarter, our capital is expected to come down as we do have less integration activity and will be on average running one less rig and one less frac fleet during the quarter. Turning to slide 11. As Scott mentioned and Neal's talked about, we did announce the Delaware divestiture. As you can see from the slide here, about $3.25 billion of cash consideration. About 92,000 net acres is being sold. And production currently is running about 50,000 BOEs per day.We did have some drilling program there. And so if you -- once those wells are completed, first quarter, that will be about 55,000 BOEs a day of production once those are completed in the first quarter placed on production. As we've mentioned, the transaction is expected to close at year-end. Post this transaction, it does return Pioneer to being 100% focused on our core acreage position in the high-margin, high-return Midland Basin.Also, we did announce -- or closed in October, the 20,000 net acres sale of our Glasscock County acreage to Laredo for about $230 million, monetizing our long-dated inventory that we weren't going to get to for a while. At the time of the sale, this acreage had -- was producing about 4,400 BOEs a day, or 2,600 barrels of oil per day. So on a combined basis, we're divesting about $3.5 billion of assets in the fourth quarter this year, which will further strengthen our balance sheet. Similar to these transactions, we will continue to pursue strategic acreage trades.And we'll continue to evaluate drill codes and small-scale divestments on long-dated inventory to accelerate value to shareholders. So looking forward to 2022, and after adjusting for both Delaware and Glasscock divestitures, we do expect to keep our Midland Basin production relatively flat with Q4 levels. So we're seeing 2022 production adjusted for the divestitures at 355,000 to 360,000 barrels of oil per day, or 630,000 to 640,000 BOEs per day.This is expected to result in a 2022 annual oil growth rate consistent with our long-term investment framework of growing production between 0% and 5%. And I might also note that as we look at 2022 capital, we are still in the midst of evaluating that. We were expecting to spend about $250 million to $300 million in the Delaware Basin to grow production there starting in 2022.So I'll stop there and turn it over to Joey for more details on operations.J. D. Hall -- Executive Vice President, OperationsThanks, Rich, and good morning to everybody. I'm going to be picking up on slide 12. Our 2021 plan remains unchanged and has set average between 22 and 24 rigs for the full year. We did mobilized several rigs to the Delaware in Q3, which I would equate to approximately one rig for the full year. Drilling and completions continue their strong track record of efficiency gains with greater than 70% and 80% increases on their respective foot per day metrics when compared to 2017. We are still operating simulfrac fleets, which further increases efficiencies and is reducing cost.Our drilling and completions teams are also successfully executing on 15,000-foot laterals. And at the same time, our land and development planning teams continue adding future 15k laterals across our acreage position. Once again, congrats to the team for great execution in Q3. I'm going to move on to slide 13. Pioneer's been committed to sustainable operations for a long time, and this has resulted in Pioneer having one of the lowest current emissions intensities among our peers.As you can see, Pioneer's 2019 starting point is lower than the majority of our peers' projected intensities for 2025 and 2030. Pioneer's 2030 emissions intensity goals represent one of the most aggressive reduction targets in the industry, demonstrating continued progress on our trajectory to net zero. This was only made possible through years of thoughtful planning and investments to minimize emissions at our facilities, coupled with our comprehensive leak detection and repair program, including routine aerial surveys.Now moving to slide 14 and continuing with the same storyline from the previous slide. Pioneer also produces extremely low emission intensity oil on a global scale, which will improve as we progress toward our 2030 reduction targets. This, combined with our low breakeven results and exceptionally resilient production that we expect will compete in the global marketplace for a very long time.And with that, I'll turn it back over to Scott to wrap things up.Scott D. Sheffield -- Chief Executive OfficerYes. Thank you, Joey. On slide number 15, we talked about our new targets. We've had significant reduction from our baseline in '19 to '20, as indicated with our progress, 27%, 50 and 50. I think we're one of the only companies that has targets for fresh water -- reducing fresh watery completions in the U.S. Our new targets are 50% by 2030 for greenhouse gas emissions for both Scope one and 2, and 75% for methane. And previously, it was 40%.Also, 2020 flaring intensity was 0.2%, significantly less than our goal of 1%. Again, we expect to end routine flaring, as defined by the World Bank, by 2030 with aspiration to accomplish it by 2025. And as Neal said, we just recently published our first climate risk report. Going to slide number 16. We've been focused on ESG leadership. I think you can see the significant changes we made over the last two years in our annual incentive compensation components for all the executives. I'm still the only CEO in the industry that is 100% tied to performance shares.Most of other executives, it's around 60%. You can see that we've increased our targets on ESG and HSE up to 20% last year. Goals are 100% aligned with shareholders' interest. We expanded the responsibilities of the Board of Directors Sustainability and Climate Oversight Committee, which is led by our Non-Executive Chairman, Ken Thompson. And we recently added a second Director this year, Maria S. Jelescu Dreyfus, who has two key focuses: One on ESG; and secondly, was the Managing Director for Goldman Sachs Investment Partners and an expert in asset management over the last several years.Again, we have a picture of our two reports. We encourage everyone to read these reports. Going to the last slide. Enhancing shareholder value, Slide number 17. Again, focused on returns. And just to remind you, I mentioned that we'll be in the low to mid-20s on both ROCE and also CROCE. Capital discipline, I mentioned that we'll be returning roughly -- or spending about 30% to 40% over the next several years is our reinvestment rate. Return on capital to our shareholders I mentioned that we have about $25 billion to $35 billion in a couple of different price cases, strip and flat price.We'll be returning about 80% of that back to shareholders, plus any buybacks that we do during that time period. Preserving a strong balance sheet, as I mentioned earlier. We'll have the best balance sheet in the company's history by the end of this quarter. And secondly, moving to zero debt all by the end of 2022. Significant inventory. We probably got the largest and longest inventory of any company in the U.S. today. And we continue on ESG leadership to be performing at the highest level. I'm going to stop there.We'll open it up for Q&A.