  OperatorGood day, everyone, and welcome to today's Bank of America earnings announcement. [Operator instructions] Please note, this call may be recorded. I will be standing by if you should need any assistance. It is now my pleasure to turn today's conference over to Lee McEntire. Please go ahead. Lee McEntire -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations

 



 Thank you, Catherine. Good morning. Thank you for joining the call to review our third-quarter results. Hopefully, you've all had a chance to review the earnings release documents. As usual, they're available, including the earnings presentation that Brian and Paul will be referring to during the call. They're available on the investor relations website of bankofamerica.com. So I'm going to first turn the call over to our CEO, Brian Moynihan, for some opening comments. And then, Paul Donofrio, our CFO, will cover the details of the quarter.Before I turn the call over to Brian and Paul, let me just remind you that we may make forward-looking statements, and I would ask you to refer to non-GAAP financial measures during the call regarding various elements of the financial results. Forward-looking statements that we make are based on management's current expectations and assumptions, and they are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause the actual results to materially differ from expectations are detailed in our earnings materials and the SEC filings available also on our website. Information about the non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliations to U.S. GAAP, can also be found in our earnings materials, and those are available on our website. So with that, let me turn it over to Brian. It's all yours. 

 



Brian Moynihan -- Chief Executive Officer Thank you, Lee, and good morning to all, and thank you for joining us. This quarter, the economy continued to make solid progress, and our clients continue to perform well, having adjusted to the operating environment. Many companies are making healthy profits, and our research team expects another strong quarter of profits by American businesses. We reported $7.7 billion in net income or $0.85 per diluted share in the third quarter, up significantly from the year-ago period. We've now earned over $25 billion for the first nine months of the year. This quarter's strong results include some themes I want to highlight ahead of Paul going through the details on the quarter. So prior to the pandemic, Bank of America was growing and creating operating leverage quarter after quarter after quarter. As I said last quarter, the pre-pandemic organic growth machine has kicked back in. You see that this quarter and is evident across all our lines of businesses. In addition, this quarter, we saw the return of operating leverage. We also saw another quarter of solid loan growth. The good news is that the nature of this growth has broadened in the third quarter, even as commercial banking utilization rates have improved somewhat.

 



 NII has improved significantly, reflecting the many quarters of growth in deposits and now loans. It also reflects a steady management of the interest rate risk and deployment of cash from our core deposit growth. At the same time, we still have a high level of asset sensitivity. We invested in our core deposits, and that supported stability over the last year as rates and loans decline. What that did is bridge us to where we are now. This quarter, where growth in loans and other factors have led to an improvement in NII and NIM, strong free growth has complemented that NII improvement. And with expenses moving sharply lower, we saw a notable return of operating leverage. Year over year, our revenues are up 12%, and the expenses were flat. Our efficiency ratios improved to 63%. As I've done in the past, I want to spend a moment on what we see in our consumer data. Let me hit a few slides beginning first on Slide 3. The improvement in the vaccination and hospitalizations, all the things you know about, have seen the U.S. economy continue its reopening trajectory following the modest slowdown from the surge in cases caused by the Delta variant. While there's been some discussion around the slowdown, I would just note that U.S. economy is now as large as it was in pre-pandemic. Our own research team, not being in transition at all, expects the U.S. economy to grow 5.5%-plus this year and 5.2% next year. These growth rates are more than twice the growth rates that many of that occurred in a pre-pandemic decade or longer. Unemployment rates continue to fall back to pre-pandemic levels. While the U.S. still has issues around labor supply and supply chains of materials, the economy is moving along. Looking at our own customer base and consumer spending, I'd offer a few insights. Third-quarter total Bank of America consumer spending, you can see on the lower left-hand part of the slide, payments were robust. They reached $937 billion, up 23% over 2019 for the quarter and a similar percent of growth over 2020. September was the best month of the year, and we've seen that spending rates continue through the first part of October. Combined spend on total -- on debit and credit cards, which is a subset of this total, about 20-odd percent of it, in that at retailers and services remain strong. In third-quarter '21, we continue to see spending shift toward travel and in-person entertainment, as well as fuel driven by both increased used and higher fuel prices. Year to date, as you can see in the chart, our total payments of $2.8 trillion by our consumers are 22% ahead of the 2019 levels. In the chart on the right, you can see how fast the growth rates occur this year. And that's another economic signpost to the steady recovery. Now as we turn to loan growth on Slide 4, you can see this chart that we've been presenting to you for the last several quarters. Why do we show you this? We wanted to show you that as we hit the bottom, the inflection point and what happened a couple of quarters ago. And this chart gives you a sense of the daily progression across those quarters. As you can see, every loan category has seen improvement. And if I showed you this by our lines of business, you would see similar progress across each one of them. Overall, ending loans, excluding PPP loans, which are in the forgiveness process, as you well know, overall, those loans increased $16 billion linked quarter. And if you look at the commercial portfolio, they grew $11 billion quarter over quarter. Compared to growth in Q2, growth this quarter was broad-based across global banking and global markets in the commercial space. C&I growth was driven in part by improved calling efforts from commercial relationship managers that we deployed across the world, including, in addition to a growing demand for credit. As you might note, we've invested in hundreds of relationship managers in our commercial lines of business. And they are now -- those investments are now bearing fruit. Loans with our wealth management clients continue to grow this quarter as these customers borrow for the reasons they borrow for liquidity and asset purchases and other things. Interestingly, in our small business area, we're seeing the business stabilize and start to grow. One of the areas is our Practice Solutions group. What that group does is lends to medical, dental and veterinary practices. They've continued to see momentum and are on the pace for the best year they've ever had. Now turning to consumer loans. The American consumer continues to borrow from Bank of America. Card loans grew 7% annualized from Quarter 2 levels with increased spending. But as you well know, repayment rates trends remain high. All products in the consumer side, except the home equity balances, had higher balances for the quarter. The decline in home equity balance is understandable given the prepayments in mortgage loans, etc. But still, we saw $1.5 billion in originations this quarter, up more than 50% from last year's third quarter. Now I'll turn your attention to slide in the appendix, not to cover it now, but you should take a look there. And you'll see the true loan lending business on the bottom left-hand side of that slide. And you'll see without the volatile PPP in and out that's occurred because of the program design. The loans this year and those lines of business are basically within 1% of where they were last year, and we can grow out from here. Moving to Slide 5. We want to show the continued reemergence of the pre-pandemic growth machine at Bank of America. We give you a few highlights. On the deposit side, we grew net consumer checking accounts, which the primary transaction accounts for our consumers, 93% being primary for the 11th consecutive quarter. This drove the continued growth in deposits in our leadership position in U.S. retail deposit market share, reaching $1 trillion of deposits in our consumer segment alone. On credit cards, we crossed back over 1 million new card production. That's the same level as we were pre-pandemic. New investment accounts have increased 9% during the pandemic. Digital progress has occurred across every business, and you'll see that in Paul's slides later. And that's increased to increased sales of products and high use of digital platforms. This bodes well for future sales levels and for future efficiency. Sales of banking products in Merrill Lynch and the Private Bank have remained strong. And with return to in-person meetings, we should see them -- even see them grow stronger. We have seen year-to-date assets under management flows grow, and it nearly triple compared to year-to-date '19. In markets and banking, we had record or near record quarters at both investment banking and equity trading revenue. So these are just a few examples of the customer growth we are seeing. A point or two on capital. This quarter's level of profits, coupled with our excess capital, allowed us not only to pay higher dividends to shareholders, but also buy back $10 billion in shares. In total, we returned $12 billion to our shareholders through these actions, proving that we can support our customers in a growing economy, support our teammates with great pay and benefits and support our communities as I'll describe it in a minute, but above all, and return capital to you, our shareholders and drive good returns for you. Going to Slide 6. With regard to how our teams are delivering more broadly in our communities, we gave you on Slide 6, an update on our $1.25 billion commitment. To date, we have directly funded nearly $400 million, about one-third of that commitment. This includes $36 million completed in equity investments in MDIs and CDFIs; $300 million in equity investment commitments to minority-focused funds to support minority and women entrepreneurs and businesses; and $70 million of directed -- philanthropic giving directed at the priorities shown on the slide, in addition to the amount we usually give on a yearly basis. Now it's worth noting that in addition to the equity investments, we have $2.1 billion in deposits in CDFIs and MDIs, the largest in the U.S. doing that. If you go to the next slide, Slide 7, this is what we're doing with our customers to help them live their financial lives even better. It highlights the products and services targeting the financial well-being of our retail clients, particularly in the low- to moderate-income areas we serve. This includes our commitment to our Pathways program, where we hire teammates from our local communities to serve our communities and be successful in our company as a company of opportunity for them. We -- recently we opt to hire another 10,000 teammates from our communities over the next five years. That's because we completed the first 10,000 a year early. The unified ways in which our teammates in local markets do a spectacular job of approaching both banking from a global scale and both banking from a local community is unique and delivers every day for us. It's been a great job by our team this quarter, and I want to thank them. Now I'm going to turn it over to Paul. But as you know, Paul has been our CFO since 2015, has done spectacular job with our company. He's going off to help us do some interesting things in the company. And I just want to congratulate and thank Paul for support. And now I'll turn it over to take you through his last earnings call. Paul? Paul Donofrio -- Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Brian. Hello, everyone. I will start on Slide 8 by adding a couple of comments on revenue and returns. On a year-over-year basis, revenue rose 12%. The improvement was driven by a nearly $1 billion increase in NII and a nearly $1.5 billion increase in noninterest income. By the way, every business segment produced year-over-year improvement in noninterest income. Expenses declined from Q2 and were flat with Q3 '20 despite the year-over-year improvement in revenue and related costs. Solid revenue growth, while holding expenses flat, created 1,200 basis points of operating leverage and resulted in $8.3 billion of pre-tax pre-provision income, up 40% year over year. With respect to returns, our return on tangible common equity was 16% and ROA was 99 basis points, both of which improved nicely from the year-ago period. Moving to Slide 9. The balance sheet expanded modestly versus Q2 to a little more than $3 trillion. After funding $9 billion of loan growth, deposit growth of $56 billion generated excess liquidity that was placed in a mixture of securities and cash. Our liquidity portfolio grew to $1.1 trillion or one-third of the balance sheet. Shareholders' equity declined $4.7 billion from Q2 as capital distributions outpaced earnings this quarter. With respect to regulatory ratios, CET1 under standardized approach was 11.140 basis points lower than Q2, driven primarily by a reduction in excess capital through share repurchases and to a lesser degree, higher RWA as a result of commercial lending growth. The ratio was 160 basis points above our minimum requirement of 9.5%, which translates into a $26 billion capital cushion. Given our deposit growth, our supplemental leverage ratio declined to 5.6% versus a minimum requirement of 5%, which leaves plenty of capacity for balance sheet growth. Our TLAC ratio remained comfortably above our requirements. Turning to Slide 10, and we'll focus on average loan balances because they are more closely linked to NII. Note that loan growth over the past two quarters has begun to show signs of improved demand, and I will refer to quarter-over-quarter improvements on an annualized basis. Also note that these charts include PPP loans, which have been moving lower, driven by forgiveness. The footnotes detailed the change in PPP loans. From a peak of $25 billion last year, PPP loans have declined through forgiveness to a little more than $8 billion on an ending basis. Focusing on the linked-quarter change in loans and excluding PPP loans, total consumer and commercial loans grew on an annualized basis by 9%, with commercial growing 11% and consumer improving 6%. GWIM continued to benefit from security-based lending, as well as custom lending, while mortgage continued to perform solidly. In global markets, we again look for investment-grade opportunities with clients as a good use of liquidity. In global banking, we saw utilization move past stabilization this quarter, but utilization rates are still 700 basis points lower than 2019, representing a $30 billion gap from current loan levels. In consumer, we saw credit card grow as new accounts continue to build across the quarters and credit spending continued to rebound. And importantly, in mortgage, as Brian noted, we saw growth as prepayment volumes slowed. With respect to deposits on Slide 11, we continued to see significant growth across the client base, adding accounts across all the deposit-taking businesses. Combining both consumer and wealth management customer balances, I would highlight that retail deposits grew $28 billion from Q2. These deposits -- these clients now entrust us to manage more than $1.3 trillion in deposits, which is more retail deposits than any other U.S. banks. We also saw a strong growth of $28 billion with our commercial clients. And remember, the deposits we are focused on and gathering are the operational deposits of our customers in both consumer and wholesale. Turning to Slide 12 and net interest income. On a GAAP non-FTE basis, NII in Q3 was $11.1 billion, $11.2 billion on an FTE basis. Net interest income increased $965 million from Q3 '20, driven by deposit growth and related investing of liquidity, as well as PPP loan activity. These drivers were partially offset by lower loan levels. NII versus Q2 '21 was up $861 million. There were several positive contributors to the quarter-over-quarter growth. First, we had an additional day of interest. We also benefited from the continued deployment and growth of liquidity. Average loan growth also contributed to NII again this quarter, and we experienced an acceleration in the forgiveness of PPP loans, which improved NII quarter over quarter by a couple of hundred million. Last but not least, we had lower bond premium amortization expense, which declined from $1.6 billion to a little more than $1.4 billion. With respect to PPP loan forgiveness, I would emphasize that this was an acceleration or pull-forward of NII into Q3 from future periods. And as a side note, I would point out that the revenue from the PPP program has helped to defray some of the enormous cost of administering this assistance program on behalf of the government. Our net interest yield improved 7 basis points from Q2 to 1.68%, driven by the improvement in NII. Importantly, given continued deposit growth and low interest rates, our asset sensitivity to rising rates remain significant, highlighting the value of our deposits and customer relationships. As we move to Q4, and assuming no significant interest rate changes, we expect benefits from expected loan growth, liquidity deployment and lower premium amortization expense to more than offset the expected reduction in PPP revenue I mentioned. Assuming the forward curve materializes and given Q3 NII growth, as well as expectations for Q4 and assuming we see any loan and deposit growth next year, we would expect NII in full-year 2022 to be well above full-year 2021. Turning to Slide 13 on expenses. Q3 expenses were $14.4 billion, an improvement of more than $600 million versus Q2. Higher revenue-related costs were more than offset by the absence of the prior quarter's contribution to our charitable foundation, as well as lower cost of unemployment claims processing. Compared to the year-ago period, expenses were flat as improvements in net covered costs, the absence of elevated litigation in Q3 '20, as well as digitalization benefits and other initiative savings were offset by higher revenue related and other costs. As we look forward, we continue to see investment in technology and people at a high rate across the businesses. And we are adding new financial centers in certain growth markets. Turning to asset quality on Slide 14. As I've reported for several quarters, the picture is very good here. Net charge-offs this quarter fell again to $463 million or 20 basis points of average loans. This is the lowest loss rate in 50 years. Net charge-offs were 22% lower than Q2 and more than 42% below the same quarter in 2019. Our credit card loss rate was 1.7% and several loan product categories were still in recovery position this quarter. Provision was a $624 million net benefit, driven primarily by asset quality improvement as delinquencies and reservable criticized commercial loans continued to move lower. We had a reserve release of $1.1 billion, split roughly 80% in commercial and 20% in consumer. Our allowance as a percentage of loans and leases ended the quarter at 1.43%, which is still well above the level following our Day 1 adoption of CECL, especially considering the mix of loans today versus then. To the extent the macroeconomic environment and asset quality improves further and remaining uncertainties dissipate, we expect our reserve levels could move lower. On Slide 15, we show the credit quality metrics for both our consumer and commercial portfolios. The only point I would make here is just to note the continued low level of late-stage delinquency loans, which drives expectation that card losses could decline yet again in Q4 before leveling off. Turning to the business segments and starting with consumer on Slide 16. Before I touch on the financials, I want to highlight what a great job this team has done in turning this business around since the pandemic. All of our businesses -- of all our businesses, consumer banking was the most heavily impacted by the pandemic, which at its worst, drove quarterly profits to a very narrow level before rebounding. We incurred heavy costs to protect the health of our associates and customers, and we added contractors and other resources to support the governments and our own customer assistance programs. We added billions to credit reserves, depressing profits as worries mounted with respect to potential credit losses. Net interest income declined as interest rates fell quickly and significantly. Fast forward to this quarter and the segment's rebound has accelerated as earnings rebounded to more than $3 billion. Net charge-offs are at historic lows. And NII has rebounded, reflecting not only deposit growth, but also the value of their deposits and customer relationships. The business alone has now crossed over $1 trillion in deposits, up 16% year over year. Our point here is that years of investing and operating under responsible growth positioned us to not only deliver for everyone during the pandemic, but also rebound quickly to organic growth and operating leverage. We were never down and we never stopped investing. And while this is true of every segment, the rebound in our consumer banking earnings is just a great illustration of the resiliency of our business and our people. The segment earned $3 billion in Q3, 48% higher year over year as revenue, expense and credit costs all showed improvement. Revenue improved 10%, reflecting higher card income on increased purchase volumes and higher service charges due to client activity. Net checking accounts grew more than 700,000 year to date and 93% of our consumer checking accounts are primary accounts with an average checking account balance of more than $10,000. Expenses moved lower by 6% as a result of a continued reduction in COVID costs, mitigated by higher costs from minimum wage increases and other operating costs. On credit, we had a $242 million reserve release this quarter, however, the more direct indicator of improved asset quality is the decline in net charge-offs. Net charge-offs of $489 million were down 26% year over year and 22% lower quarter over quarter. Our credit card net loss rate for the quarter was 1.7%. Pre-pandemic, it was over 3%. On Slide 17, you can see the increase in consumer deposits, loans and investments. We covered loans and deposit growth earlier with respect to investment balances. We reached a new record of $353 billion, growing 32% year over year as customers continue to recognize the value of our online offering. Yes, balance grew as market values increased, but we also saw $21 billion of client flows. An important element of this growth has been the 9% growth in the number of accounts over the past year to more than 3 million. On Slide 18, let me highlight a couple of points regarding the continued improvement in digital engagement. As all of you know, enrollment is important, but usage is key. We now have nearly 41 million customers actively using our industry-leading digital platform. This quarter, 70% of households use some part of our digital platform within the past 90 days, logging in more than 2.6 billion times. And while Erica and Zelle users has been tremendous, what I would draw your attention to is the digital sales growth, which is up 27% year over year. Lastly, while not reflected on this slide, I would just add digital engagement has become foundational to maintaining our customer satisfaction at historic levels. Turning to wealth management, the continued economic reopening, client flows and strong market conditions once again led to not only record investment balances and asset management fees, but also record levels of loan and deposits, all contributing to a record pre-tax margin in Q3. In fact, this is the 46th consecutive quarter of average loan growth in this business. Both Merrill Lynch and the Private Bank contributed to the improvement and are driving digital engagement to deliver products and services to clients. You can expect this to continue as we drive toward a modern marrow, which is advisor-led, powered by digital. Growth in our new households at Merrill and at the Private Bank continued as we continue to build pipelines and move back toward pre pandemic -- our pre-pandemic pace. Net income of $1.2 billion improved 64% year over year, driven by the strong revenue performance. With respect to revenue, record AUM fees, which grew 19% year over year, complemented higher NII on the back of solid loan and deposit increases. Expenses increased in alignment with higher revenue. Client balances rose to $3.7 trillion, up 20% year over year, driven by higher market levels, as well as strong flows of $91 billion. Let's skip to Slide 21 to highlight our progress in digitally engaging wealth management clients. The clients of this business continued to lead the franchise on digital adoption, utilizing not only digital tools to access their investments, but also other banking needs like mobile check deposit and lending. More and more clients logged in to easily trade, check balances and originate loans all through one simplified sign-on. And through leveraging Erica-based AI capabilities and through use of Webex meetings and secured text messaging, we are making it easier and more efficient for clients to do business with us wherever and however they choose. This creates additional capacity for our teams to spend more time advising existing and potential clients. Moving to global banking on Slide 22. The segment had very strong performance with near record investment banking fees, another solid quarter of deposit growth and an uptick in loan demand. Strong deposit growth helped to improve NII, which complemented the continued strength in investment banking. The business earned $2.5 billion, improving $1.6 billion year over year, driven by both higher revenue and lower provision costs. Provision expense reflected a reserve release compared to builds in the year-ago quarter. Revenue grew 16% and included an 8% improvement in NI while firmwide investment banking fees were up 23% to $2.2 billion, down only modestly from the Q1 record level. This IB performance resulted in a No. 4 ranking in overall fees with a pipeline that remains strong. We ranked No. 1 in leveraged finance and investment-grade with strong market share improvement compared to the year-ago period. We also had record M&A results. It is worth noting that we continued to see strong momentum in investment banking with our middle market clients. As many of you know, we have been investing in our investment banking capabilities with middle market clients for a few years now. Over that time, we have executed transactions for nearly 300 first-time IB clients, and we now have investment bankers in 23 cities across the U.S. Noninterest expense increased 7% year over year, primarily reflecting higher revenue-related costs and continued investment in the franchise. We've already covered much of the balance sheet on Slide 23. So let's skip to digital trends on 24. Digital investments, strategies and tactics are an enterprise effort with learnings in one segment benefiting another. That has been particularly true in global banking. And as we continue to invest -- we continue our investments in digital solutions, our client adoption and uses continues to grow. Enhanced banking solutions have helped us capture greater market share as wholesale clients do more with banking partners that are the most stable and secure and have the capabilities to invest in new technologies that will provide better data and global integrated solutions. Switching to global markets on Slide 25, results reflect solid sales and trading activity led by our equities business. As I usually do, I will talk about the segment results, excluding DVA. This quarter, net DVA was a modest loss, but the year-ago quarter had a higher $116 million loss. Global markets produced -- excuse me, global market produced $941 million in earnings on par with the year-ago quarter. Focusing on year over year, revenue was up 3%, driven by sales and trading. Sales and trading contributed $3.6 billion to total revenue, improving 9% year over year. FICC declined 5%, while equities improved 33%, recording one of its stronger -- strongest performances ever. FICC results reflected a flat yield curve and range bound interest rates for much of the quarter with continued tight credit spreads. With interest rates moving late in the quarter, we saw an improvement in activity and revenue opportunities. The strength in equities was driven by growth in our client financing business, as well as a strong trading performance and increased client activity in both cash and derivatives. The increase in expense year over year was driven by increased activity-related sales and trading costs. On Slide 26, we note year-to-date revenue trends across the last few years. As you can see, while our performance was elevated in 2020 during the pandemic, 2021 remains well above the pre-pandemic years presented, driven by continued elevation of client activity and volatility in the market, as well as investments made to extend more balance sheet to clients. Finally, on Slide 27, we show All Other, which reported a small net loss. Revenue declined by $109 million year over year, reflecting higher partnership losses on ESG investments. Expense was lower year over year, driven by the absence of litigation accruals in the prior period. Our effective tax rate this quarter was 14%. Excluding the tax credits driven by our portfolio of ESG investments, our tax rate would have been roughly 25%. We would expect the tax rate in Q4 to be between 10% and 12%, absent any tax law changes or unusual items. With that, we can go to Q&A.  